Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
With just one day remaining before a potential strike at Samsung Electronics, the management and union are continuing talks in search of a breakthrough.
Samsung Electronics and its labor union have resumed negotiations this afternoon, starting from around 4 PM. 
Labor Minister Kim Young-hoon stepped in to continue mediation, highlighting the government's growing concern over the potential economic impact of a full-scale strike.
His main goal is to persuade both sides to compromise by presenting a range of alternatives on key disputed issues. 
This comes as the labor union had earlier officially announced on their website around 10 AM that they will be proceeding with a nationwide strike as planned to exercise their rights.
Samsung Electronics had also expressed regret over the collapse in negotiations, saying it would continue efforts to avoid what it described as "the worst-case scenario."

#2
With one day left till official campaigning begins for the June 3rd local and parliamentary by-elections, both ruling and main opposition parties moved into full campaign mode.
The ruling Democratic Party said the nationwide elections will serve as the first major political test since the launch of the Lee Jae Myung administration, as the party plans to campaign on themes of "judging the insurrection" and reviving the people's livelihoods. 
The main opposition People Power Party argued that another victory for the DP would allow the government and the ruling party to dominate not only the executive and legislative branches, but also local governments. 
The party added it would focus its campaign on the need to keep the administration in check. 
Meanwhile, the National Election Commission Chairman pledged a fair and transparent election management ahead of the official campaign period, ensuring the election becomes an opportunity for national unity.

#3
President Lee Jae Myung was highly critical of a humanitarian aid flotilla carrying two South Korean activists recently being seized by Israeli forces on its way to the Gaza Strip.
Presiding over a Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, he asked what legal grounds Israel has for intercepting the ship in waters near Gaza.
The president criticized, saying that basic international norms were not kept.
Mentioning a European move to enforce an ICC arrest warrant against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, President Lee said South Korea should also make its own decision.

#4
A Korean oil tanker has passed through the Strait of Hormuz and is continuing its voyage, after Seoul called on Tehran to ensure safe passage through the strategic waterway.
The foreign ministry says the vessel crossed the Strait on Wednesday, with around ten Korean crew members on board.
Seoul has continued requesting the safety and free navigation of all vessels, including Korean ships, through four phone calls between Foreign Ministers, the dispatch of a special envoy to Tehran, and diplomatic channels involving both countries’ foreign ministries and embassies.
The vessel's known to be the HMM-operated tanker "Universal Winner," which had earlier been stranded near Qatar.
Seoul says no fee has paid to Tehran for this transit.
Earlier on Wednesday, Foreign Minister Cho Hyun told the National Assembly Foreign Affairs and Unification Committee that the tanker set sail on Tuesday, carrying roughly two million barrels of crude oil.

#5
Chinese President Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin said the two countries' relations have reached an "unprecedentedly high level" at a joint press conference following the summit in Beijing.
The two leaders also signed a series of agreements covering trade, technology, and strategic cooperation, including a declaration calling for a more multi-polar world order.
In their joint declaration, Moscow and Beijing warned against what they called the return of the "law of the jungle," criticizing "some countries" attempts to manage the world unilaterally and impose their interests on the entire world.

Moving to the weather forecast,
We’re currently seeing rain across much of the country.
Through tomorrow, mountainous areas of Jejudo Island could see more than 120 millimeters of rain, while the southern coast may receive over 80.
Inland areas across the central regions are also expected to pick up between 30 and 80 millimeters.

The current temperature are
15 degrees in Seoul,
19 degrees in Gwangju,
16 degrees in Busan,
And 21 degrees on Jejudo Island. 
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio