Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
The South Korean president has touched down in Hanoi for his state visit, having wrapped up his trip to New Delhi.
President Lee Jae Myung will meet To Lam, Vietnam's top leader and General Secretary of the Communist Party.
It will their second engagement in about eight months following To Lam's state visit to Korea last August.
The summit will include an exchange of documents, a joint press conference, and a state dinner.
High on the agenda is cooperation in trade, nuclear energy, supply chains and critical minerals.
The two countries plan to increase bilateral trade to 150-billion U.S. dollars a year by 2030.
Science cooperation, cultural and people-to-people exchanges are also on the agenda.

#2
President Lee Jae Myung began his second day in Vietnam with a luncheon for the local Korean community.
Speaking at the event in Hanoi on Wednesday, the President pledged full government support to address the challenges that overseas Koreans face. 
He specifically highlighted the needs of multicultural families, noting that there are now some 1-hundred-thousand Korean-Vietnamese households across both nations. 
Vietnam is home to the fifth-largest Korean community in the world, and the largest in ASEAN, with a population of roughly 2-hundred-thousand.

#3
U.S. Forces Korea Commander General Xavier Brunson testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee on Tuesday, which came following reports last month that the U.S. military has repositioned parts of its THAAD missile defense system in South Korea toward the Middle East to back up America's war efforts against Iran.
To this, Brunson said that the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense designed to intercept short, medium, and intermediate-range ballistic missiles using hit-to-kill technology "still remains on the Peninsula currently." 
He added that munitions are being sent to the Middle East, which were ready and waiting to be moved.
During the Senate hearing in Washington, Brunson said that the presence of U.S. forces in Korea was strategic, vital to defending American interests in the region.

#4
South Korean households may feel the effects of rising consumer prices in the coming months, as the Producer Price Index for March recorded the largest monthly increase in nearly 4 years.
According to data released by the Bank of Korea on Wednesday, the PPI reached 125-point-24 in March, a 1-point-6 percent jump from the previous month. 
This marks the seventh consecutive monthly increase since September last year and the largest monthly rise since April 2022, after Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022.
The primary driver was the sudden volatility in energy markets. 
As March marked the first full month of the conflict in the Middle East, global oil prices saw a dramatic spike.
This led to a 31-point-9 percent surge in coal and petroleum products, the highest increase in the sector since the 1997 Asian financial crisis. 
Chemical products also rose 6-point-7 percent, while overall industrial goods prices climbed 3-point-5 percent.
For average consumers, a rise in the Producer Price Index, especially driven by higher energy costs, means costs are likely to be passed on through higher product prices.

#5
Meanwhile tensions in the Middle East appear to be having little impact on investor sentiment on the local bourse.
The benchmark KOSPI soared past the 6-thousand-400 mark for the first time on this Wednesday.
Following volatile intra-day trading the index closed at a record 6-thousand-4-hundred-17-point-9 UP over 29 points or more than 0-point-4 percent.
This historic milestone builds on the previous session's massive 2-point-7 percent jump surpassing the record set prior to the outbreak of the Iran conflict roughly two months ago.

Moving to the weather forecast,
Today, we’ve got some rain on the way for the southern regions and Jejudo Island.
Now, because there’s fine yellow dust in the air, some of that rain could dissolve it, so you’ll want to avoid getting caught in it if possible.
The rain will taper off by tomorrow morning in the south, but on Jeju, it’ll stick around a bit longer —lasting into the daytime hours tomorrow.

The current temperature are
19 Degrees in Seoul
13 Degrees in Gwangju
15 Degrees in Busan
And 10 Degrees on Jejudo island
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio