Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
Fueled by a relentless rally, Korea's benchmark KOSPI broke through the 7-thousand range for the first time ever on Wednesday.
According to the Korea Exchange, Wednesday's index finished at 7-thousand-3-hundred-84-point-56, up 6-point-45 percent from the previous close.
It opened more than two percent higher at 7-thousand-93, breaking above the 7-thousand mark at the opening bell.
The breakthrough came just over two months after the KOSPI first topped the 6-thousand mark intraday in late February.
The rally gained further momentum early in the session, surging into the 7-thousand-3-hundred range and triggering a buy-side sidecar that temporarily halted program buying for five minutes.
The index later climbed as high as 7-thousand-4-hundred-26-point-6, briefly moving above the 7-thousand-4-hundred level as well.
In particular, the KOSPI's total market capitalization surpassed 6-thousand trillion won, approximately 4 trillion U.S. dollars for the first time ever, increasing more than 1-thousand trillion won in just about three months.

#2
U.S. President Donald Trump has suspended "Project Freedom," a maritime operation utilizing the U.S. military to guide merchant vessels through the Strait of Hormuz, just two days into its execution.
On Tuesday, Washington time, the U.S. president announced on social media that the operation would be paused for a short period. 
Citing requests from mediating countries like Pakistan and what he described as "great progress" toward a final agreement with Iran, Trump stated the movement of ships is being halted to determine if a deal can be finalized. 
He emphasized, however, that the broader U.S. naval blockade of Iranian ports remains in full effect.
South Korea no longer needs to review whether to join U.S. operations in the Strait of Hormuz, as the U.S. has paused its "Project Freedom."
That's according to National Security Adviser Wi Sung-lac, speaking on Wednesday to reporters.
On "Maritime Freedom Construct," --- which has been separately proposed by the U.S., --- Wi added that Seoul is studying similarities and differences between the coalition approach and Project Freedom.

#3
The South Korean-operated cargo ship Namu is currently waiting to be towed to safety, according to the Blue House. 
As of now, the operation is expected to be completed sometime Thursday, Korea standard time, though officials say the situation remains fluid. 
Once towing begins, the vessel is expected to arrive at Dubai Port in about eight hours. 
A staff member from the shipping company HMM said it has finalized contracts for both towing and repairs.
The Iranian government has not yet commented on the fire; however, Iranian state media has reported on the blaze.

#4
The government is overhauling its export statistics system for the first time in seven years to better reflect the nation’s shifting industrial landscape.
The Ministry of Trade, Industry and Resources said on Wednesday that it's expanding its list of "major export items" from 15 to 20, adding categories such as agri-food and cosmetics. 
The move comes as K-food and consumer goods see record-breaking global demand.
Most notably, the government will now track memory and system chips separately within the semiconductor category. 
With chip exports hitting historic highs driven by the global AI boom, officials say the refined data will allow for more precise monitoring of South Korea’s top export engine.

#5
North Korea has revised its constitution to formally codify Kim Jong-un’s “hostile two states” doctrine, abandoning decades of rhetoric portraying the two Koreas as part of a single nation destined for reunification.
According to details disclosed by Seoul’s Unification Ministry on Wednesday,
Pyongyang added a new territorial clause defining the North as a separate sovereign state bordering China and Russia to the north, and South Korea to the south.
The revisions remove references to “peaceful reunification,” “national unity,” reflecting Kim’s policy line that inter-Korean relations should be regarded as one between two hostile states.
The revised constitution also boosts Kim’s authority, defining the State Affairs Commission chairman as the country’s head of state, and legitimizing his authority over nuclear weapons usage, for the first time.

Moving to the weather forecast,
It’s been mild and sunny lately, but rain will move in tomorrow, bringing slightly cooler temperatures.
Showers are expected across central regions from tomorrow afternoon into the evening.
But the Seoul metropolitan area and inland Gangwon State will only see around 5 millimeters, and Chungcheong-do Province will receive less than 5 millimeters.

The current temperature are
17 degrees in Seoul,
17 degrees in Gwangju,
16 degrees in Busan,
And 11 degrees on Jejudo Island.
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio