Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
President Lee Jae Myung hosted his Indonesian counterpart Prabowo Subianto on Wednesday at the Blue House, where they agreed to forge a "special comprehensive strategic partnership."
The talks yielded key deliverables on trade, defense industry, AI, shipbuilding and nuclear energy, with the bilateral cooperation highlighted amid the a global energy crisis due to the conflict in the Middle East.
The Ieaders also addressed their global contribution as middle powers.
A host of MOUs were exchanged, including cooperation on the economy, critical minerals, clean energy and AI for health.
Furthermore, South Korea and Indonesia plan to bolster their cooperation in defense industry, based upon their joint development of the KF-21 fighter jet.
Later in the day, the Indonesian leader was hosted for a state lunch, along with key business leaders.
President Lee presented his Indonesian counterpart with the nation's highest order, the Grand Order of Mugunghwa.

#2 
President Lee Jae Myung called on his officials to sort out each and every item that could be affected by the war in the Middle East.
At an emergency economic meeting on Wednesday, he urged them to thoroughly check and monitor the supply of those items on a daily basis, as well as their prices and any signs of shortages.
Lee also instructed related ministries to set up a communication hotline with related industries... and impressed on them the need to find alternative supply lines.

#3
The South Korean government has raised its oil security alert to the second-highest level, citing growing concerns over supply disruptions.
What this means is that... the government will strengthen supply and demand control measures by looking to secure alternative supplies through routes other than the Strait of Hormuz, and by implementing a crude oil swap system with private companies.
The Industry Ministry said Wednesday the measure will take effect from midnight tonight, while the natural gas alert was also elevated to the third-highest level as energy supply disruptions begin to materialize.
The move comes about a month into the ongoing conflict involving the United States and Israel against Iran, with difficulties in oil procurement and a more than 20 percent drop in domestic reserves.
In response, the Environment Ministry announced that starting next week, the current five-day vehicle rotation system will be tightened to a stricter two-day system.

#4
The KOSPI ended 8.4 percent higher at 5478.7 on Wednesday, rebounding after barely holding above the 5,000 level the day before on hopes of a possible end to the U.S.-Iran conflict.
A buy-side sidecar was triggered shortly after the opening, as the KOSPI 200 futures index jumped more than five percent, halting program buying for five minutes.
The KOSDAQ also saw a sharp rise, with a buy-side sidecar activated in the afternoon session, before it ended 6 percent higher.
March was dominated by volatility on Korean stock markets amid the Middle East conflict.
After approaching the 6,300 level before the outbreak, the KOSPI swung sharply and at one point on Tuesday, dropped nearly 20 percent from its peak

#5
The National Museum of Korea ranked third in global museum attendance last year, placing it behind only the Louvre and the Vatican museums.
According to The Art Newspaper on Wednesday, the museum recorded 6.5 million visitors in 2025, outplacing the British Museum and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
The Art Newspaper noted that visitor numbers at the National Museum of Korea surged by more than 70 percent compared to the previous year, marking one of the largest absolute increases observed globally.
The upward trend has continued into this year as the museum welcomed more than 2 million visitors, up 44.8 percent from the same period last year in the first quarter alone.

Moving to the weather forecast,
Tomorrow, most parts of the country will see generally clear skies. 
It will be a perfect day to go out and enjoy the cherry blossoms at their peak. 
However, we can expect a big day-to-night temperature difference of around 15 degrees Celsius.
Meanwhile, air quality will be at bad levels across the capital area and central regions, with poor conditions also expected in Daegu.

The current temperature are
_______ Degrees in Seoul
_______ Degrees in Gwangju
_______ Degrees in Busan
And _______ Degrees on Jejudo island 
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio