Welcome to Arirang News This is Park Kee hoon 
And we start with the top headlines at this hour.
1.
President Lee Jae Myung has called for the need to find stable energy 
supply lines as the Strait of Hormuz has been effectively closed.
Speaking at a meeting with his aides on Thursday, Lee said the country 
needs to make desperate efforts to secure even "a single drop" of 
additional oil.
The president appreciated the UAE for its cooperation in helping South Korea secure 24-million barrels of crude oil.
Presidential chief of staff Kang Hoon-sik has agreed with Abu Dhabi 
on the oil supply during his recent trip to the UAE.

2.
Geopolitical uncertainty and higher energy costs are putting strong pressure on the value of the Korean currency.
The South Korean won closed at 15-hundred-and-one won against the 
U.S. dollar on Thursday, up 17-point-9 won from Wednesday, 
hitting its lowest level since March 2009 during the global financial crisis.
South Korea's stock market was also affected, with the benchmark KOSPI falling 2-point-73 percent to close below 5-thousand-800.

3.
South Korea is urging its citizens to quickly leave Iran, Iraq and Lebanon, amid the worsening situation in the Middle East.
On Thursday, the Foreign Ministry said it is earnestly urging Korean citizens to depart from the three high-risk Middle Eastern nations, 
as the security concerns are rising, especially with the deployment of Israeli troops to Lebanon, and the widening scope of air strikes and drone offensives.
A ministry official told the media that Seoul cannot rule out a situation 
where citizens and assets of U.S.-aligned countries may be targeted.
There are currently around 120 South Korean nationals staying in Lebanon, while roughly forty remain in Iran.
Most Koreans in Iraq are businesspeople employed by large 
construction firms, which are communicating with Seoul authorities 
on safety and evacuation procedures.

4.
South Korea’s National Assembly has entered a new phase of confrontation, as a plenary session gets underway with a filibuster 
already in progress over a set of contentious prosecution reform bills.
Lawmakers began deliberations Thursday afternoon, 
with the ruling Democratic Party moving to put two key bills to a vote,
the establishment of a new investigation agency for serious crimes 
and a separate public prosecution office.
The proposed agency would be created under the Interior Ministry, 
taking over investigations into major crimes such as fraud 
and capital market violations as well as crimes committed by officials across investigative and judicial bodies.
Ruling party lawmakers say the reform is essential to completing 
the long-standing goal of separating investigative and prosecutorial powers. But the opposition strongly disagrees, arguing that placing the new agency under the Interior Ministry risks political interference, particularly through personnel control, warning it could turn state investigative power into a tool of the administration.

5.
The National Data Agency released its 2025 Marriage and Divorce Statistics today, reaching pre-pandemic levels. 
Around 240-thousand marriages were registered last year.
That is an 8-point-1 percent jump from the previous year.
Divorces, on the other hand, fell 3-point-3 percent on-year to 88-thousand.
This marks the second consecutive year of significant growth in marriages, effectively snapping an 11-year downward trend.
The agency attributes the rise to changing demographics and shifting societal sentiments.
Demographic experts project this positive trend will likely hold 
until around 2027.
That is due to the structural advantage of what's described as the 
"echo boomer" cohort remaining in their early 30s until then.