Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
Donald Trump has issued a stark ultimatum to Iran, setting a final deadline with less than a day now remaining.

Trump warned that unless Iran reopens the Strait of Hormuz and agrees to a deal acceptable to Washington, the U.S. will carry out large-scale strikes on key infrastructure.

Trump also stressed this would be the final warning.

Iran has rejected a U.S.-backed 45-day temporary ceasefire proposal, instead calling for a permanent end to the conflict.

According to Iranian state media, Tehran submitted a 10-point response via Pakistan, demanding safe passage through the Strait of Hormuz, post-war reconstruction, and the lifting of international sanctions.

Iran dismissed U.S. threats as baseless, vowing to continue its attacks.
 
2.
President Lee Jae Myung, wearing a tie representing unity, called for across-the-aisle cooperation as he hosted the leaders of the nation's two main political parties over lunch, stressing the importance of communication.
Higher living costs topped Tuesday's meeting as the country navigates the fallout from the war in the Middle East.
Lee said he expects dialogue and coordination across the aisle for the "war-response" supplementary budget,... worth 26-trillion won, or 17-billion U.S. dollars,... which includes cash assistance for the bottom 70-percent of the income bracket.
As the president reiterated that the government's extra budget was organized with surplus tax revenues,... the ruling Democratic Party leader Jung Chung-rae asked for support for its swift approval.
But the main opposition People Power Party leader Jang Dong-hyeok disagreed with certain spending plans.
Jang was also critical of the government's policies in a host of areas, ranging from the economy, real estate, to foreign policy... and asked that the president change his course of state affairs.
The three-way meeting was the first of its kind in about seven months, as a scheduled lunch meeting in February was abruptly cancelled as the PPP leader protested the DP-led judicial reform laws.
 
3.
Presidential Chief of Staff Kang Hoon-sik has begun his trip to three major energy producers as President Lee Jae Myung's special envoy for strategic economic cooperation.

Speaking to reporters ahead of his departure on Tuesday, Kang said the mission is to prepare for what the Blue House now sees as a longer period of energy instability. 

He says the risk of disruption is not imminent, as South Korea has already secured crude oil volumes equivalent to 59 percent of last April's imports and 69 percent of May's.
But the problem is that South Korea remains heavily dependent on shipments that pass through the now-virtually closed Strait of Hormuz.

Kang acknowledged that a quick end to the conflict would still be unlikely to bring energy prices down right away. 

He added that the government's supplementary budget bill, currently under review at the National Assembly, includes subsidies for crude oil and naphtha suppliers to prevent even higher costs being passed on to consumers.
 
4.
The average price of gasoline in Seoul has surpassed two-thousand won, or one dollar 32 cents, per liter due to the effects of the ongoing war in the Middle East.

According to Opinet, a fuel price monitoring system operated by the state-run Korea National Oil Corporation, the average stood at two-thousand and one-point-five-four won per liter as of 2:30 PM Tuesday, up 11-point-one-five won from the previous day.

It's the first time in three years and eight months that the per-liter price has exceeded two-thousand won, when prices surged due to the Russia-Ukraine war.

The South Korean government will implement a five-day rotation system at public parking lots starting Wednesday.
Entry is restricted on one day of the week based on the last digit of a car's license plate number, but it does not apply on weekends and public holidays.
This is in line with government guidance following the issuance of a resource security crisis alert at the "Caution" level, as global supply disruptions continue.
 
5.
Samsung Electronics' first-quarter profit beat its total for all of last year.
The company announced Q1 profits of 57.2 trillion Korean won, or approximately 37.9 billion U.S. dollars.

This sets a new record for the highest quarterly operating profit in the company's history.
According to the company's preliminary earnings report released Tuesday, the operating profit is a 755 percent surge compared to the same period in 2025.
Sales reached 133 trillion won, or roughly 88.1 billion dollars. That represents a 68 percent increase on-year.

Samsung's mobile and smartphone divisions also contributed to the bottom line, bolstered by the recent launch of Samsung's flagship AI-integrated handset series earlier this year.
 
Moving to weather forecast,
Temperatures dropped quite a bit this morning, bringing a late-season cold snap.
Tomorrow in Seoul, it will fall to around 3 degrees Celsius.
And it’ll stay chilly in the mornings through tomorrow and on Wednesday.

Meanwhile, air quality will be pretty good tomorrow thanks to better air circulation.

Looking ahead, rain is expected nationwide between Thursday and Friday, with heavier rain expected for Jeju and the south coast. 

59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Pyeongchang
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’