Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
With twelve days to go until South Korea's June 3rd local elections, both major parties are splitting their leadership across the country to shore up support in key battlegrounds.
The ruling Democratic Party is keeping its focus on the Chungcheong-do region — seen as a crucial swing vote.
Party leader Jung Chung-rae visited the area for a second consecutive day, lending his support to candidates in Cheongju and Chungju, while floor leader Han Byung-do worked to solidify support in the traditionally friendly Jeolla-do region.
The main opposition People Power Party is also fanning out across the country.
Party leader Jang Dong-hyeok canvassed southern Gyeonggi-do Province, while floor leader Song Eon-seog headed to Ulsan to rally conservative support in the south.
Speaking at a party strategy meeting earlier in the day, Jang took aim at the Democratic Party, calling on voters to use this election to deliver a clear verdict on what he described as the ruling party's arrogance.

#2
A union vote began on Friday for a tentative wage and bonus agreement between Samsung Electronics' union and management, 
with the outcome set to determine whether the deal officially takes legal effect.
The company’s labor union launched its electronic vote on Friday at 2:12 PM, which will continue through to next Wednesday at 10 AM. 
The agreement will pass if a majority of eligible union members participate 
and more than half vote in favor. 
If the proposal is rejected, labor and management 
will have to resume negotiations.
The tentative 2026 wage deal includes a newly created special management performance bonus funded with 10-point-5 percent of agreed business performance earnings, with no ceiling on payouts.
Beyond the bonuses, 
the two sides agreed on a 6-point-2 percent average wage increase.
They also expanded welfare benefits, 
including a new company housing loan system worth up to 500 million won, 
or around 330 thousand U.S. dollars.

#3
Following meetings with U.S. President Trump on May 14th, and then Russian President Putin on the 20th, now Xi is expected to travel to Pyongyang as early as next week to meet North Korean leader Kim Jong-un.
In a joint statement, China and Russia advocated for a multipolar world and a new type of international relations... with the warning that the world "faces the risk of regressing to the law of the jungle."
Now eyes are on the possibility of Chinese leader Xi's visit to North Korea, with the Blue House releasing a statement on Thursday that the South Korean government is closely watching developments and hopes that exchanges between North Korea and China will contribute to peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula.
Many sources, including U.S. magazine TIME, also reported that China’s security and protocol teams recently visited Pyongyang for preparations for a visit, and that Xi Jinping may visit North Korea as early as next week.

#4
South Korea's cosmetics exports set a new milestone in 2025.
Data released from the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety on Friday 
showed a trade surplus in cosmetic products exceeding 10 billion U.S. dollars.
That's an increase of 13-point-5 percent from a year earlier.
Data also showed that this surplus accounted for 12-point-9 percent of the country's overall trade surplus.
Korea's cosmetics trade recorded its first surplus in 2012 at 90 million U.S. dollars, and has since shown steep growth. After a slight dip in 2021, 
the industry has seen a consistent upward trend in the size of the surplus.

#5
The English version of the South Korean children's song "Baby Shark" has surpassed one billion streams on Spotify.
That makes Baby Shark the first character intellectual property and children's song to join the platform's "Billions Club", according to Pinkfong Company on Friday.
The company added the achievement places the song alongside global hits by artists, including BTS, BLACKPINK, and Taylor Swift.
Originally released as part of Pinkfong's children's content lineup, the song's viral success also led its dance video to become YouTube's most-viewed video of all time, with more than 16-point-9 billion views.

Moving to the weather forecast,
We're looking at mostly sunny weather through the long weekend starting tomorrow.
But, on Saturday, light rain of less than 5 millimeters is forecast for the east coast of Gyeongsangbuk-do Province and Jeju Island.
A few sprinkles may also develop across the capital area and Chungcheongnam-do Province.
Overall, rainfall will be quite light.

The current temperature are
21 degrees in Seoul,
19 degrees in Gwangju,
17 degrees in Busan,
And 17 degrees on Jejudo Island.
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio