Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
The U.S. military said it has completely halted economic trade going into and out of Iran by sea. 
In a statement, Admiral Brad Cooper, the head of United States Central Command, said U.S. forces continue to maintain control of the region's sea lanes and that the blockade of Iranian ports is now "fully implemented."
He said roughly 90 percent of Iran's economy is fueled by international trade by sea, and that in less than 36 hours of the blockade, all economic trade entering or leaving Iran by sea had been halted. 
The U.S. military said more than 10,000 Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps personnel, along with more than a dozen warships and over 100 aircraft, were taking part in the operation.
The U.S. Central Command stressed that the blockade is being enforced impartially against vessels of all nations entering or departing Iranian ports and coastal areas.
At the same time, it said freedom of navigation remains in place for vessels transiting the Strait of Hormuz on their way to non-Iranian ports. 

#2
South Korea has garnered additional oil supplies to address the shortages stemming from the conflict between the U.S. and Iran.
According to Presidential Chief of Staff Kang Hoon-sik on this Wednesday 
Korea has secured 2-hundred-73 million barrels of crude oil 
and 2-point-1 million tons of naphtha to be delivered through waterways that bypass the Strait of Hormuz.
The crude oil volume is reportedly equivalent to more than three months of domestic consumption based on last year's data while the naphtha supply is equivalent to one month of imports.
Kang's address to the media at the Blue House today follows his week-long trip to Kazakhstan Oman Saudi Arabia and Qatar as a special presidential envoy for strategic economic cooperation

#3
The Korea Composite Stock Price Index surged about 3 percent, breaking 6-thousand-100 during intraday trading on Wednesday. 
The benchmark KOSPI opened at 6-thousand-141-point-6, up 2.91 percent from the previous session, and was trading higher at 6-thousand-146-point-0-6 as of 10:30 a.m. before hitting 6-thousand-183-point-2-1.
The upward surge came on growing expectations that the U.S. and Iran will resume ceasefire negotiations, after President Donald Trump hinted that these talks could resume "in the next two days" in Pakistan.

#4
Korea is moving to work with the International Atomic Energy Agency to build nuclear-powered submarines.
This came on Wednesday as Foreign Minister Cho Hyun met with IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi in Seoul.
According to the Foreign Ministry, Cho reaffirmed that Seoul will fully comply with its obligations under the Non-Proliferation Treaty in the process of introducing conventionally armed nuclear-powered submarines, and emphasized its commitment to transparent communication with the IAEA. 
Grossi expressed his expectations for Seoul to continue to uphold all non-proliferation obligations, pledging the IAEA's close cooperation.
Seoul has long explored the move to develop nuclear-powered submarines, but has faced legal and diplomatic constraints tied to its civil nuclear agreement with the United States, as well as concerns of nuclear proliferation.

#5
An American YouTuber, known online as Johnny Somali, has been sentenced to six months in jail in South Korea for multiple charges including public nuisance and distributing sexually explicit deepfake content.
A Seoul court handed down the sentence on Wednesday,
guilty of such charges.
The court also imposed a 20-day detention period pending a possible appeal.

Kalid sparked outrage after posting videos of himself engaging in lewd acts at public places, including at a statue symbolizing victims of wartime sexual slavery.

Moving to the weather forecast,
We’ll see mostly clear skies nationwide tomorrow, but clouds will gradually move in - starting from Jejudo Island in the morning, and spreading to the rest of the country in the afternoon.
Through tomorrow, inland areas will continue to see large day-to-night temperature swings of around 15 degrees Celsius.
So make sure to dress in layers and please take care.

The current temperature are
19 Degrees in Seoul
15 Degrees in Gwangju
15 Degrees in Busan
And 13 Degrees on Jejudo island 
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio