Welcome to Arirang News This is Park Kee hoon 
And we start with the top headlines at this hour.
1. 
Korean stocks shot up by more than 5 percent on Monday, 
closing at a record high and edging closer to the 7,000 mark.
The KOSPI opened up 2.8 percent at around 6,780 
and extended its record-breaking rally.
It started from around 6,598 and climbed steadily, with gains widening to nearly five percent intraday, breaking past 6,780 and even topping 6,930.
The benchmark closed at 6,936, up 5-point-1 percent on the day.
It not only set a new intraday record but also finished at an all-time high.
With the rally accelerating, the once-distant "7,000 mark" is now 
within reach. 

2.
Online shopping in Korea hit a record high in March, 
surpassing 25 trillion won, or about 17 billion U.S. dollars, for the first time.
The Ministry of Data and Statistics said Monday that the total value of online shopping reached 25.5 trillion won, 
up 13-point-3 percent year-on-year.
Mobile shopping maintained double-digit growth, 
but its share of total transactions slipped slightly.
Travel and transportation services led the gains, 
driven by stronger demand for flight bookings.
Automobile-related sales more than doubled, fueled by increased deliveries of imported electric vehicles, while telecom device sales jumped 
on new smartphone releases.
Meanwhile, cross-border online sales in the first quarter jumped nearly 
24 percent, driven by the global popularity of K-culture.

3.
President Lee Jae Myung has asked the ruling Democratic Party 
to determine the timing and planned procedures for a proposed 
special counsel probe through public consultation and deliberation.
That's according to Senior Presidential Secretary for Political Affairs 
Hong Ihk-pyo on Monday, who said there is broad public support 
to launch a probe into "illegal acts and unjust investigations."
Democratic Party lawmakers introduced a bill last week 
to appoint a special counsel to examine allegations 
that prosecutors under the former Yoon Suk Yeol administration 
brought politically motivated indictments.
The investigation would cover charges against Lee, including breach of trust in real estate development projects and alleged involvement 
in the illegal transfer of funds to North Korea.
The opposition has slammed the bill as a form of "self-pardon," 
arguing that Lee, as president, would appoint the special counsel, 
who could then drop existing indictments if found to be based on 
fabricated evidence.

4.
Korea’s first nationwide election since the launch of the Lee Jae Myung administration is entering full campaign mode.
Candidate lineups for 16 metropolitan mayoral and gubernatorial races have now been finalized with just 30 days to go until voters head to the polls.
Meanwhile, the race for Seoul’s mayor, one of the country’s key battlegrounds, has taken shape as a two-way contest between the 
ruling Democratic Party’s candidate Jung Won-oh and the incumbent Mayor Oh Se-hoon of the main opposition People Power Party.
Housing policy is set to be a central campaign issue.
Jung is emphasizing labor reforms, including flexible work arrangements and measures to address job displacement driven by AI and 
climate change.
While, Oh aims at fast-track redevelopment and reconstruction projects 
by easing loan regulations to revive housing supply.

5.
A North Korean women’s football team is set to visit South Korea this month, marking the North's first sports delegation to come to the South 
in over seven years.
According to Seoul’s Unification Ministry and the Korea Football Association, North Korea’s Naegohyang women’s football team will take part in the AFC Women’s Champions League semifinals on May 20th.
Naegohyang will play in the Champions League for the first time, 
after winning three-nil in the quarter final in Vietnam.
The upcoming visit draws attention given the lapse in inter-Korean exchanges, with the North having declared the South a "hostile state."