Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
A threat, but also an opportunity.
President Lee Jae Myung made the remarks while chairing his first National Economic Advisory Council meeting at the Blue House on Thursday.

Lee has again called for turning the challenge posed by the war in the Middle East into a chance to overhaul South Korea's economic structure.

Lee and council members focused on what they see as two urgent tasks: securing energy supplies in the short term and reducing South Korea's long-term dependence on fossil fuels and on Middle Eastern energy routes. 
The Blue House says the government will move to revise and develop related policies based on the ideas discussed at Thursday's meeting.
 
2.
North Korea has test-fired a short-range surface-to-surface missile, armed with cluster-munition warheads,... as part of their continuous testing of various new weapons systems this week from Monday to Wednesday.
This is according to the Korean Central News Agency, State’s media on Thursday, which said the tests lasted three days and included demonstrations of anti-aircraft weapons, purported electromagnetic weapons systems and carbon-fiber bombs.
This comes after South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff detected the firing of multiple launches into the East Sea... from North Korea's Wonsan area at around 8:50 AM on Wednesday,... followed by another launch at approximately 2:20 PM.

KCNA said the Hwasong-11Ka... was a cluster-munition warhead system mounted on the nuclear-capable Hwasong-11 ballistic missiles. They reported that the test confirmed that the missile "can reduce to ashes any target covering an area of 6.5-7 hectares with the highest-density power."
This is an enhancement to the KN-23 family of short-range ballistic missiles,... which resemble Russia’s Iskander missiles in their design for low-altitude, maneuverable flight to evade missile defense systems.
North Korean leader Kim Jong-un was not apparently present at the test site.

3.
A North Korea-U.S. summit could take place this autumn,... resuming top-level talks that broke down in 2019 over the terms of denuclearisation.

That's according to Frederick Fleitz, former National Security Council Chief of Staff of the first Trump administration.
While a Kim-Trump summit may be difficult amid the war in Ukraine,... in which North Korea has been a major weapons supplier to Russia,... Fleitz says there are positive signs that Pyongyang may be showing restraint.

On concerns among America's allies over security assurances,... Fleitz said Washington stands firm on its promise of Extended Deterrence against North Korea,... and that U.S. troops in Korea are not being reduced.

With growing talk of modernising the alliance,... Fleitz welcomed the bilateral push for Seoul to build nuclear-powered submarines, process spent fuel and enrich uranium.

Defining the 'Trump Doctrine' as reflective of what average Americans desire,... not an isolationist foreign policy,... Fleitz expressed confidence in support for the Korea-U.S. alliance.

 
4.
Iran has announced alternative routes for ships travelling through the Strait of Hormuz, citing the risk of sea mines in the main zone of the vital waterway.
Iran's Revolutionary Guards suggested near Larak Island and a statement released Thursday shared instructions for an alternative entry and exit route through the strait.

Meanwhile, Iranian state media said Wednesday that Tehran has closed the Strait of Hormuz in response to Israel’s continued military operations in Lebanon.
Tehran had effectively blocked the key shipping route since early March, sending global energy prices spiralling.
Washington and Tel Aviv, however, maintain that the ceasefire agreement does not cover Lebanon, where Israel says it is targeting Hezbollah.

On Wednesday, although the United States and Iran agreed to a two-week ceasefire overnight from Tuesday to Wednesday, Israel launched its largest coordinated strike on Lebanon since fighting began last month.
Lebanon’s civil defense says at least 254 people were killed in the strikes, including 91 in the capital Beirut and wounded hundreds more.
 
5.
Arirang TV marks a major milestone in 2026, celebrating its 30th anniversary-- the foundation held a commemorative ceremony on Thursday in Seoul to celebrate.
The event was attended by company staff and officials, including the Second Vice Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism {김대현} Kim Dae-hyun, and the Secretary to the President for Foreign Press Affairs.
A highlight of the ceremony was a congratulatory message from President Lee Jae Myung, emphasizing Arirang’s role as a "public diplomacy platform."

The ceremony also honored those who elevated Korea's global standing, including K-pop sensation BTS, who received a special merit award.
From its humble beginnings to reaching 140 countries today, Arirang TV has spent three decades as the world's window into Korea. 
 

Moving to weather forecast,
We’re seeing quite a bit of spring rain nationwide...
...Which will continue through tomorrow afternoon, before gradually easing off.
Anywhere from 20 to 150 millimeters of rainfall is expected.
The heaviest rain will be in the south of the country — with more than 250 millimeters in the mountainous areas of Jeju Island and over 120 millimeters along the south coast.
At times, there could be 20 to 30 millimeters per hour, and around 50 millimeters per hour on Jeju Island.

A strong wind advisory is in effect for the southern parts of the west coast and Jeju Island.
Meanwhile, dry weather alerts along the east coast of Gangwon-do Province have been lifted as the rain moves in.
Tomorrow, Seoul will start the day at 11 degrees Celsius, 
59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Pyeongchang
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’