Welcome to Arirang News this is Jin Myong
And we start with our top headlines at this hour. 

1.
Debris recovered from the attack on the Korean vessel, HMM Namu, will soon be brought to Seoul for forensic analysis,… as concern deepens over the safety of Korean ships stranded near the Strait of Hormuz.
Speaking to reporters on Tuesday,… a Foreign Ministry official said the government is working to bring recovered engine fragments of HMM Namu, into the country for examination by specialised institutions.
The official said the Defence Ministry would support the analysis,… but that the exact agency, transport route and timing are still under review.
Seoul is trying to determine what type of flying object struck the vessel,…saying it is unclear whether they were drones or missiles.
 

2.

Chinese Vice Premier He Lifeng and U.S. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent are expected to hold talks in Seoul on Wednesday, a day before the U.S.-China summit in Beijing. 
He Lifeng arrived at Incheon International Airport on Tuesday, and Bessent is scheduled to arrive Wednesday after talks with Japanese officials in Tokyo.
The talks in Seoul aim to bridge gaps on sensitive economic issues before the leaders meet, and to finalize the agenda on each country's priorities.

Meanwhile, in Beijing, security has been reportedly tightened as police are stationed every 100 meters along major roads, and the Temple of Heaven has been closed to the public.
 

3.

U.S. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent and Japanese Finance Minister Satsuki Katayama have pledged closer coordination to address currency market volatility following high-level talks in Tokyo on Tuesday.

Currently, Japan is the largest foreign holder of U.S. government debt, with holdings exceeding 1-point-2 trillion dollars.

While Japan has recently spent billions in direct market interventions, Bessent suggested a preference for the Bank of Japan to tighten its monetary policy to support the yen more sustainably.

The meeting took place while Japan's 10-year government bond yield remains at a 29-year high.

 

4.
Making more investments to prop up economic growth.
That was what President Lee Jae Myung called for on Tuesday at the Cabinet-slash-emergency economic meeting, as he assessed that the current conditions constitute an emergency that requires expansionary fiscal policy.

As he noted the economic impact of the consumption vouchers distributed last year,... the president urged officials to ensure that active fiscal policy is reflected in the growth strategy plan for the latter half of the year as well as next year's budget planning.

He said critics calling for government belt-tightening were "irresponsible" and were turning a blind eye to people's hardships.

 

5.

Korea is looking to fundamentally improve how it manages its foreign workforce, which has now reached 1-point-1 million people.
To better address industry needs and protect the rights of migrant workers, the Ministry of Employment and Labor held a forum on Tuesday.
The discussions focused on moving away from the current system, where policies are fragmented across different ministries based on visa types.

Presenters at the forum emphasized shifting the focus from simply bringing in workers to supporting their entire lifecycle, including recruitment, training, and long-term settlement.

 

Moving to weather forecast, 
Tomorrow, clear skies will return with warm spring weather.
And, temperatures will rise further toward Thursday and the weekend.
Seoul’s daytime high will climb up to 29 degrees Celsius on Thursday, and temperatures could reach up to 30 degrees over the weekend.
But, there’ll also be big day-to-night temperature swings, so please dress in layers.
Meanwhile, a dry weather advisory are in effect for the eastern coastal areas of Gangwon-do Province.
So, please be cautious of wildfire risks.
Tomorrow, UV levels will be "very high" nationwide during the daytime, so make sure to wear sunscreen and avoid outdoor activities as much as possible. 
Tomorrow, clear skies will return. Seoul will start the day at 14 degrees, Chuncheon at 13 degrees, and Busan,15 degrees.
Then by the afternoon, Seoul will get up to 25 degrees, while Chuncheon, Daejeon, and Gwangju will all top out at 26 degrees.
Looking ahead, about 5 millimeters of rain is expected over the mountainous areas of Gangwon-do Province.
Now, here's a look at the weather around the world.