Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
Iranian anti-ship missiles were likely used in the attack that set a Korean vessel ablaze near the Strait of Hormuz earlier this month, prompting Seoul to lodge a strong protest and request an apology from Tehran.
At a briefing Wednesday, First Vice Foreign Minister Park Yoon-joo unveiled the results of a government probe into the attack on the HMM Namu.
The Korean vessel was anchored near UAE waters inside the Strait of Hormuz on May 4th, when it was struck twice by unidentified aerial objects.
The government says debris recovered from the vessel included components resembling an Iranian-made Toloue-4 turbojet engine, along with markings believed to be from an Iranian manufacturer.
Officials added that unexploded high-explosive material was identified, while the fuselage debris was painted sky blue, matching the coating and color used on Iran’s Noor-series anti-ship missiles.
Park said Seoul would summon the Iranian ambassador, convey a strong protest, and demand an apology along with responsible measures to prevent a recurrence.

#2
South Korea's benchmark KOSPI surged nearly 5 percent at market open on Wednesday, on the back of a sharp, tech-driven market rally, 
and went to a record high of 8-thousand 4-hundred-50.
It opened at 8-thousand-2-hundred-42-point-12, 
up 1-hundred-94-point-61 points, or 2-point-42 percent, 
and further extended its gains.
Then, the Korea Exchange temporarily paused trading on its main board after the opening bell. 
According to the KRX, a buy-side sidecar was activated 
at approximately 9:06 AM, suspending KOSPI futures buy orders for five minutes.
A buy-side sidecar is triggered whenever the KOSPI 200 Futures index surges by 5 percent or more and holds that level for at least one minute. 
The KOSPI closed at 8-thousand-2-hundred-28-point-70.
The relentless rally in the memory-chip sector is gaining traction, 
propelling the market values of both Micron Technology and SK hynix past the 1 trillion dollar milestone for the first time.

#3
The number of newborns in the first quarter of this year reached its highest level in seven years, driven in part by a rise in marriages over the past two years and an increase in the population of women in their 30s.
A report from the Ministry of Data and Statistics on Wednesday showed that the number of newborns exceeded 75-thousand, up nearly 15 percent from a year earlier.
The average number of babies a woman is expected to have also rose to point-9-5 in the first quarter, up point-1-2 from the same period last year.
In March alone, more than 25-thousand babies were born, marking an increase of nearly 20 percent year-on-year.

#4
President Lee Jae Myung will hold a press conference next month marking one year in office.
It will be held at 10 AM on June 8th at the Blue House, according to senior presidential secretary for public relations Lee Kyu-youn.
The president is expected to take a look back at the past year and unveil key policy visions for the year ahead.
The Blue House said the key visual for the event will be a "light" symbolizing democracy and a "road" for all people.
Around 160 reporters will be invited.

#5
Scientists and heritage experts from around the world gathered in Busan for an international symposium on Wednesday on the future of geoheritage conservation.
Hosted by the Korea Heritage Service ahead of the 48th session of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, the event focused on the launch of the “KGA Korea Declaration."
KGA, or Key Geoheritage Areas, refers to internationally significant geological sites, including fossils, volcanic landscapes and rock formations.

Moving to the weather forecast,
Tomorrow, we'll continue to see cloudy skies. 
With thick cloud cover, daytime temperatures will stay near seasonal norms, keeping conditions relatively mild.
Conditions will gradually improve afterward, as clearer skies return and temperatures begin to rise again.
By Sunday, highs will reach 30 degrees Celsius, bringing back early summer heat.

The current temperature are
21 degrees in Seoul,
22 degrees in Gwangju,
20 degrees in Busan,
And 19 degrees on Jejudo Island.
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio