Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
The national average gasoline price at gas stations as of Friday at 10 AM hit 1,883.79 Korean won, or roughly one U.S. dollar 26-cents.
This is around 15 won lower than the previous day and marks the third consecutive day of decline.

This comes as the South Korean government has implemented a temporary price cap on domestic fuel.
Beginning midnight on Friday, it is the first such measure in nearly 30 years since the full liberalization of oil prices in 1997.
It usually takes two to three weeks for fluctuations in international oil prices to be reflected at domestic gas stations. 
The system, sets upper limits on the wholesale supply prices that refineries can charge to gas stations and distributors. 

Regular gasoline is capped at 1,724 won per liter, automotive diesel at 1,713 won per liter, and household kerosene at 1,320 won per liter.
The maximum prices are calculated based on refiners' pre-Middle East conflict supply prices, adjusted by international oil price fluctuation rates and added taxes.

The government will review and reset these maximum prices every two weeks.
2.
President Lee Jae Myung is set to meet the leaders of Indonesia and France next month as they travel to South Korea on state visits.

In a written briefing on Friday, Blue House spokesperson Kang Yu-jung said Lee will sit down with Indonesian President {프라보워 수비안토}Prabowo Subianto on April 1st for talks on advancing their Special Strategic Partnership.
President Subianto last visited South Korea last October for the APEC Leaders' Summit. 

Then on April 3rd, Lee will hold a summit with French President Emmanuel Macron.
The trip will be Macron's first to Korea and the first state visit by a European leader since Lee took office.

The two leaders are expected to discuss cooperation in trade, advanced technology, as well as regional and global issues.
 
3.
The Foreign Ministry says it will respond firmly to Japan’s latest territorial claim of the Korean islets of Dokdo.

The statement was delivered to Arirang News,... after Japanese Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi said during a parliamentary session on Friday that the islets,... known in Japan as "Takeshima,"... are Japanese territory.

Takaichi said Japan would “clearly inform the international community” of its position.
The Japanese leader also said the government would work toward making it possible in the future to send a cabinet minister to its annual “Takeshima Day” event.

In response, South Korea's Foreign Ministry said Dokdo is clearly South Korea’s inherent territory historically, geographically, and under international law.
Dokdo is currently administered by South Korea, with a permanent police presence on the islets.

The ministry added the government will respond firmly and sternly to any unjust claims by Japan regarding Dokdo.
 
4.
The first train departing from Pyongyang arrived at Beijing Railway Station Friday morning… right on schedule.
It had left the North Korean capital at 10:26 AM the previous day,... pulling in at the platform in Beijing at 8:40 AM,.... after a near 25-hour journey.
Electronic display boards at Beijing station began announcing the arrival about an hour in advance… identifying the service as Train K-28 from Pyongyang, set to arrive on Platform 10.

The railway link was suspended in January 2020,... when North Korea sealed its borders to prevent the spread of COVID-19.

The route is jointly operated by Chinese and North Korean railways and runs through Tianjin, Shanhaiguan, Shenyang and the border city of Dandong before crossing into North Korea through Sinuiju.

China Railway says the service will operate Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday in both directions, restoring a long-standing symbol of cross-border exchange between the two countries.
 
5.
Netflix has officially greenlit a sequel to its record-breaking animated hit, "KPop Demon Hunters."

The streaming giant signed an exclusive multi-year deal with co-directors Maggie Kang and Chris Appelhans to expand the franchise.
The original film has already made history as Netflix’s most-watched movie ever, surpassing 500 million global views.

Its breakout track, "Golden," also dominated the music world, reaching number one on the Billboard Hot 100.

Korean-Canadian director Maggie Kang expressed her pride, stating there is "still a lot more to show" of this unique world.

Moving to weather forecast,
We'll see a similar weather pattern through the weekend as the weekdays with wide gaps in readings, with more cloud coverage.
 
Tomorrow morning we are beginning the day at 3 degrees Celsius here in Seoul, Daejeon and Daegu still very cold at zero degrees.

But both regions will see highs jumping to the mid teens by the afternoon, topping out at 14 in Daejeon and 15 degrees in Daegu. 

Next week, temperatures are expected to stay close to seasonal norms, bringing typical mid-March spring weather with more precipitation in the forecast on Wednesday.

59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Gwangju.
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’