Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz has just announced that Ali Larijani, the Secretary of Iran's National Security Council, was killed in overnight airstrikes.

However, just minutes before Israel's declaration, Iranian state media reported that Larijani was alive and would shortly be issuing a public message.

Meanwhile, the Israel Defense Forces say they have also killed Gholamreza Soleimani, the commander of Iran's Basij paramilitary force.
Tehran has not yet given a direct response.
 
2.
U.S. President Donald Trump says he has asked China to delay his planned visit to Beijing by about a month.

Speaking at the Oval Office on Monday,… Trump said he still wants to travel to China,… but "feels" he needs to remain in the United States while the Middle East conflict continues.

White House spokeswoman Karoline Leavitt said earlier in the day that the dates may be moved as Trump prioritizes overseeing the U.S. military operation against Iran.

The Beijing trip had been scheduled for March 31st to April 2nd,… for talks with Chinese President Xi Jinping that had been expected to help stabilize the rocky relations between the world’s two largest economies.

Still, preparations for a potential Trump-Xi summit have continued.
U.S. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent and Chinese Vice Premier He Lifeng held two days of talks in Paris aimed at preparing possible agreements on rare earth supply chains and expanded Chinese purchases of U.S. farm goods.

 
3.
President Lee Jae Myung has urged the government to prepare for the worst-case scenarios stemming from a possible prolonged conflict in the Middle East.

Speaking at a Cabinet meeting held in Sejong city on Tuesday,... he said oil prices have begun to stabilize since the price cap was implemented, but warned of further uncertainties.

He called on officials to supervise prices on-site to make sure the price cap is actually reflected at the gas pumps, and instructed them to swiftly organize an extra budget.

On top of finding alternative energy supplies,... Lee mentioned the possibility of temporarily limiting the use of private vehicles and placing export controls on certain items if necessary.
 
4.
South Korea’s ruling Democratic Party plans to pass key legislation on prosecutorial reform at the upcoming plenary session.

DP Chairman Jung Chung-rae announced at a press conference on Tuesday that the ruling bloc had reached a coordinated agreement on bills to establish a new major crime investigation office and a public prosecution office.

Meanwhile,
President Lee Jae Myung has called on the police to fulfill their duty of dedication to serving the people.

Lee attended an appointment event on Tuesday for new police officers, saying that all police authority comes from the trust of the people.

He said law enforcement should be exercised in an accurate, fair and transparent manner to ensure a just outcome, adding that action by each and every police officer sets criteria for enforcing the law.
His remarks come amid a readjustment of power between the prosecution and police.

 
5.
South Korea’s financial markets showed signs of relief on Tuesday, with the benchmark index posting strong gains despite ongoing uncertainties in the Middle East.

The KOSPI closed higher at 5640.48, led by strong gains in large-cap stocks, as buying in semiconductor and auto shares lifted the overall index.
The KOSDAQ ended slightly lower, but saw an intraday rebound driven by net retail buying.
Meanwhile, the Korean won strengthened slightly, closing at 1493.6 per dollar, down 3.9 won from the previous session.

The rally appears to have been driven in part by a recent drop in oil prices, which have been a major source of market swings.

Wall Street rebounded overnight to finish higher, after posting broad losses in the previous session.
Major indexes rose, posting gains of roughly one percent.
The gains were largely driven by a pullback in oil prices.
 

Moving to weather forecast,
Tomorrow, we’ll see spring rain across the country. It will begin in the Chungcheongnam-do Province and Jeju-do Island early in the morning, before spreading nationwide by late morning. Most of the rain will taper off by the afternoon.

Heavier rain is expected along the southern coast, with up to 30 millimeters lasting into the night. On Jeju, rainfall could exceed 70 millimeters through early Friday morning.

Air quality levels will be “bad” in the Capital area, Gangwon-do Province, and the Chungcheong-do provinces

Tomorrow, Seoul will begin the day at 6 degrees Celsius, Daejeon at 5 degrees, and Busan at 10 degrees

59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Pyeongchang
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’