Welcome to Arirang News This is Park Kee hoon 
And we start with the top headlines at this hour.
1. 
Ensuring workplace safety and pursuing labor-management co-prosperity.
Those were the key messages by President Lee Jae Myung on Friday 
at a Labor Day event at the Blue House.
Highlighting how he worked in a factory as a child, President Lee took note of the dedication and hard work by ordinary workers, 
and promised to create a society where labor is respected 
and everyone can work in a safe environment.
He also vowed to make sure that all workers are treated fairly, 
regardless of their hired status, and he vowed to achieve co-prosperity between labor and management for "genuine growth."
Lee went on to mention the future of labor where most of human labor might be replaced by AI, and called for the need to seek co-existence where no laborer should be unilaterally forced to make sacrifices.
The event was the first to be held since Labor Day was restored 
to its original name for the first time in 63 years and was designated as a public holiday.

2.
South Korea says it remains committed to peace and denuclearization 
on the Korean Peninsula.
At a United Nations Security Council meeting in New York, Seoul’s ambassador Cha Ji-hoon said Seoul respects North Korea’s regime,
and is not seeking absorption-based unification.
But he also urged Pyongyang to return to the Nuclear 
Non-Proliferation Treaty.
The Security Council meeting came two years after the UN panel monitoring North Korea sanctions was shut down.
A UK-based research group told the Council that North Korean ships have continued moving coal and iron ore, using false signals and 
other tactics to evade sanctions.
Washington said it would push to blacklist the vessels.
Russia and China opposed more pressure, and North Korea accused the U.S. of hostility and double standards.

3.
Korea’s export numbers surged last month, driven by a 
semiconductor boom, marking a second straight month above 
80 billion dollars.
The Trade Ministry's April figures on Friday show that exports jumped 
48 percent on-year to 85-point-9 billion dollars.
Semiconductors led the gains, soaring over 170 percent to 
31-point-9 billion dollars, accounting for 37 percent of total exports.
Memory prices have spiked sharply, with DDR4 up more than 
eightfold over the past year, amid rising investment in AI servers.
Exports to the U.S. and China both posted strong growth,
while shipments to the Middle East fell over 25 percent,
hit by war-related disruptions.

4.
U.S. President Donald Trump on Thursday said he will "probably" 
consider pulling out troops from Italy and Spain.
This came a day after announcing that Washington was looking at reducing the number of military personnel in Germany.
President Trump has openly criticised NATO’s European allies after they did not respond to a U.S. request for naval support to ensure tanker transit through the Strait of Hormuz, which had been blockaded by Iran.
There are approximately 84-thousand U.S. troops stationed across Europe.
Around 36-thousand are based in Germany alone.

5.
The Japanese government is seeking a stopover in Japan 
by U.S. President Donald Trump during his planned trip to China in mid-May.
Citing Japanese and U.S. government sources, the Japan Times said 
Trump is expected to hold talks with Japan's Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi to discuss Tokyo-Beijing relations and Taiwan.
It added that Washington has not yet notified Tokyo of the plan 
due to Trump's fluctuating schedule amid the Middle East conflict
and that any decision will likely be made at the last minute.
The Japanese government is reportedly planning to arrange phone talks between the two leaders if Trump decides to not to stopover.