vWelcome to Arirang News. This is Key Kim. We start with the top headlines at this hour. 1. The KOSPI made history on Wednesday by surging past 6,100 during the day and closing at a record high above 6,000, capping off a remarkable rally that has captivated investors worldwide. The benchmark index climbed to close at 6,083, driven by robust gains in key sectors amid global optimism in the technology and automotive industries. Leading the charge were heavyweight stocks like Samsung Electronics and SK hynix, which built on Tuesday's milestones, where Samsung hit 200-thousand Korean won and SK hynix reached 1 million won. The rises were supported by strong demand for semiconductors fueled by advancements in artificial intelligence and partnerships in the tech space. 2. South Korean President Lee Jae Myung has highlighted the importance of encouraging foreign travel beyond Seoul. Chairing a tourism policy meeting at the Blue House on this Wednesday, he called for the launch of region-specific travel programs and for more "visitor-friendly" infrastructure and services. The government aims to attract 30 million inbound tourists annually. Last year, almost 19 million tourists flocked to South Korea. 3. The National Assembly on Wednesday approved a motion to end an opposition-led filibuster and then proceeded to pass revision to the Commercial Act which will prevent companies from freely stockpiling.. treasury shares. Following the vote, lawmakers tabled amendments to the Criminal Act that introduce a new crime of "legal distortion"... bringing the number of bills left on the agenda to seven. With the PPP pledging to launch filibusters... against every single one of them... the parliament is headed for its longest plenary session yet. 4. South Korea's birthrate grew at the fastest pace in 15 years in 2025, with the number of babies born tallied at 254-thousand five-hundred. That's according to a government report released on Wednesday, which said the figure rose 6-point-8 percent from 2024, marking a birthrate increase for the second consecutive year. The country's total fertility rate has also risen to zero-point-8 for the first time in four years. The Ministry of Data and Statistics attributes the rebound to an increase in marriages and the continued rise in the number of women in their early 30s,... a figure that has been increasing since 2021. It noted that the number of marriages rose for 21 straight months between April, 2024 and December, 2025... as couples who had delayed their marriages due to the pandemic got married. The ministry also highlighted that there has been a notable change in social perception towards having children. The number of couples planning to have children after marriage rose by 3-point-1 percentage points in 2024 in the ministry's latest biennial survey. With such data, the government projected the total fertility rate of the country to stay above the zero-point-8 level this year... and to further rise to one by 2030. 5. South Korea and the United States will stage their annual joint springtime military exercise,... Freedom Shield,... from March 9th to 19th. In terms of field training that is usually conducted in a concentrated fashion during this period,... the allies said they were still consulting on how the drills would take place this time,... but that they will be executed in a balanced fashion. This is reportedly due to South Korea's request to adjust the drills,... seemingly to reduce any reaction by North Korea. They added that the drills serve as a chance to support ongoing preparations for a conditions-based wartime operational transition. 6. Coupang, announced on Wednesday that around 200-thousand Taiwanese accounts were included among the massive data breach of some 3-point-3 million accounts last year. According to the U.S. enlisted e-commerce giant, the cybersecurity firms Mandiant and Palo Alto found this out during their comprehensive forensic investigation. The firm added that the data accessed from these accounts was limited to basic contact and order information, and that the perpetrator reportedly retained information from only one of those accounts. Taiwan's digital affairs ministry was reportedly notified about the matter earlier this week, and said it plans to conduct an administrative inspection shortly. Moving to weather forecast, The mild weather continues. The spring-like weather will continue into this weekend. Air quality will stay in the normal range despite the big rise in highs. The morning starts off on a chilly note, at 2 degrees in the capital, minus 4 degrees in Chuncheon. But highs will jump more than 10 degrees by the afternoon. 59:30’ The current temperatures are: _______ degrees in Seoul _______ degrees in Gwangju. _______ degrees in Busan And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island 59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’