Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
U.S. President Donald Trump announced a ten-day pause on the destruction of Iranian energy plants, pushing an existing deadline from March 27 to April 6.
The U.S. decision to halt the strikes on the energy infrastructure was made to allow room for diplomacy.
Taking to social media on Thursday, Trump noted the extension was requested by the Iranian government and that ongoing talks are progressing well.
On Thursday, Israel announced it had killed the commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Navy.
This key military figure was directly responsible for overseeing the ongoing blockade of the Strait of Hormuz.
Netanyahu also claimed the killing was a coordinated strategic effort with the United States to achieve broader wartime objectives.
It has already been four weeks since the war began, and as the conflict in the Middle East persists, its broader impact on the global economy and geopolitical risks may intensify.

#2 
Seoul is "reviewing" whether to attend the Group of Seven leaders' summit in June, after France invited the leaders of South Korea, India, Brazil and Kenya.
The Blue House said Friday that Seoul is currently considering whether to attend, taking into account diplomatic schedules as well as domestic and international circumstances.
The Elysee had extended the invitation on Thursday, with the intention of expanding support among key markets to address global economic imbalances.
The announcement comes as Middle East tensions and energy risks are expected to feature prominently in discussions among advanced economies.
Ahead of the leaders' summit, Minister Cho Hyun is attending the G7 foreign ministers' meeting in Paris, holding a series of bilateral talks with his counterparts. 
According to Seoul’s foreign ministry, Cho met with the U.S. Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Allison Hooker on Thursday.
He expressed concern over the situation in the Strait of Hormuz and stressed that de-escalation is urgently needed to guarantee safe navigation for all vessels, including Korean ships, and to stabilise global energy and logistics supply chains.

#3
The U.S. Forces Korea has reportedly formed a new unit dedicated to integrating U.S. nuclear forces, with South Korea's conventional capabilities.
According to military sources on Friday, the USFK elevated the Conventional Nuclear Integration --- or CNI --- team, that had been under the J5 Strategic Planning and Policy Directorate, into an independent office called the J10 Strategic Integration Element, and has been operating it since June last year.
This is seen as part of efforts to strengthen extended deterrence for South Korea. 

#4
Industry Minister Kim Jung-kwan presided over an emergency government meeting on Friday to formulate plans to stabilize industrial supply chains and manage energy demands amid the prolonged Middle East crisis.
Kim called for cooperation among senior officials from business associations, urging them to step up efforts to secure alternative supply sources, and especially to refrain from collusion and hoarding.
The minister also vowed to make efforts to prevent disruptions in production across major industries, including the medical and everyday goods sectors, due to potential shortages of industrial materials such as naphtha.

#5
Spring has officially arrived, as streets lined with cherry blossoms welcome visitors to Jinhae-gu District in the southern coastal city of Changwon.
Running through April 5th, the Jinhae Gunhangje marks the full arrival of spring nationwide, with cherry blossoms expected to reach peak bloom throughout the week.
Some visitors have even traveled all the way to Korea specifically to experience this festival, eager to take in the cherry blossoms at their peak.
Now in its 64th year, the festival features a wide range of events, with the city anticipating about 3.5 million visitors.

Moving to the weather forecast,
Spring has officially arrived.
But with less rain this spring and stagnant air, fine dust is building up.
As for ultrafine dust levels, most regions will be seeing bad levels. Levels in the south of the country may briefly spike to “very bad” in the morning.
Looking ahead, rain is forecast, with showers beginning early Monday morning in the southwest, western Gyeongsangnam-do Province, and Jeju-do Island before spreading to other parts.

The current temperature are
_______ Degrees in Seoul
_______ Degrees in Gwangju
_______ Degrees in Busan
And _______ Degrees on Jejudo island
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio