Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
Korean stock markets extended their strong rebound on Thursday.
After experiencing high volatility with a sharp drop following its intraday passing above the 8-thousand mark for the first time last Friday, the KOSPI recorded its largest gain of the day.
Investor sentiment appears to have improved as Samsung Electronics management and its union reached a dramatic agreement on wage negotiations.
Additionally, an overnight tech-led rally on Wall Street, along with a stabilization in U.S. Treasury yields and international oil prices, also fueled the market's upward momentum.
On Thursday, the benchmark KOSPI opened at 7-thousand-4-hundred-86-point-37, up 2-hundred-77-point-42 points, or 3-point-85 percent.
It then further extended gains, closing at 7-thousand-8-hundred-15-point-59.
Meanwhile, the Korea Exchange activated a trading halt for five minutes after the KOSPI 200 futures jumped more than five percent from the previous close,... at around 9:24 a.m. after the opening bell.
A buy-side sidecar is triggered when the KOSPI 200 Futures index increases 5 percent or more for at least one minute.
 
2.
The government will extend its tax cuts on fuel... by another two months.

According to the Finance and Economy Ministry... on this Thursday... the current reduction rates will remain unchanged... until the end of July at 15 percent for gasoline and 25 percent... for diesel.

The decision reflects... the uncertainty in global oil markets... amid the prolonged Middle East conflict... which in turn is weighing heavily... on Korean household budgets.
 
3.
President Lee Jae Myung has called for tangible outcomes... ahead of the first anniversary of his administration in office.

The call came during a meeting with members of presidential advisory committees and councils at the Blue House... on this Thursday.

The president added that the past year had been dedicated to fixing an "abnormal" system and that now... the focus should be on policies that tangibly help improve people's livelihoods.
 
4.
The Blue House has "welcomed" news of the release... of two South Korean activists by Israel.

The activists had been aboard a humanitarian aid flotilla... bound for Gaza... when they were arrested... by Israel.

The top office here added... that the two Koreans were deported... without being detained in a facility... following the government's diplomatic efforts.

Israel... for its part... has reportedly said that it hoped the incident would not affect its relationship with South Korea.
 
5.
The number of foreign travelers to South Korea... during the first four months of this year... hit... an all time high... of over 6-point-7 million.

According to the Culture Ministry... on this Thursday, the figure is also UP over 20 percent on year.

In April alone... the number of foreign travelers to Korea... soared almost 20 percent... on year... driven by visitors from neighboring China and Japan.

Meanwhile... credit card spending by foreign tourists also hit a record high... of over 1-point-2 billion U.S. dollars in April... the highest monthly sum since 2018.
 
6.
Next month, "BTS's World Tour 'ARIRANG'" concert in Busan will be screened in more than 38,000 theaters across over 80 countries. 

BTS's agency, BITHIT MUSIC, said the concert will be shown through "live viewing," a real-time broadcast of a live performance streamed directly to venues such as movie theatres.

Due to time differences, audiences in North and South America and Europe will be able to catch the stream one or two days after the live concert.

In South Korea, the concert will be live-streamed at Korea's three major cinemas, CGV, Lotte Cinema, and Megabox.

The concert will take place at Busan Asiad Main Stadium, the same venue where BTS held its concert in 2022. 

 
Moving to weather forecast,
In Seoul, the rain has stopped, and most areas will be dry again by tonight. Although parts of the East Coast and mountainous areas may still see light rain into early tomorrow morning.

Between tomorrow morning and afternoon, Jejudo Island could see less than 5 millimeters of rain.
UV levels will be "very high" in most parts of the country, so please wear sunscreen and try to avoid outdoor activities during the daytime.

59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Pyeongchang
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’