Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
U.S. President Donald Trump has called on South Korea and four other nations, China, France, Japan, and the United Kingdom, to send ships to the Strait of Hormuz.

Trump made the comment in a social media post on Saturday, with the appeal targeting countries heavily dependent on oil passing through the strait, which carries about 20 percent of the world's oil.

The Blue House said on Monday that the matter should be reviewed "very carefully."
Officials also noted that the safety of international sea lanes and freedom of navigation serve the interests of all nations.

Other countries have so far maintained a cautious stance,... including Japan, where its pacifist constitution limits its use of force.
China has urged all countries to halt military actions in Hormuz, without giving a public response to Trump.
 

2.
A South Korean military transport aircraft carrying evacuees from the Middle East arrived in Seoul on Sunday evening, marking the first airlift evacuation using a military plane since the Middle East conflict escalated last month.
A KC-330 Cygnus multirole aerial tanker landed at Seoul Air Base in Seongnam, just south of the capital, at 5:59 PM, bringing home 204 South Korean nationals and seven foreign citizens from Saudi Arabia.
The evacuation mission, codenamed “Desert Shine,” was launched as thousands of South Koreans remained stranded across the Middle East due to widespread flight disruptions amid the expanding war between U.S.-Israeli forces and Iran.

President Lee Jae Myung on Sunday expressed gratitude to government officials and personnel who successfully carried out the operation.
 
3.
Meanwhile,
The government here and the ruling Democratic Party have agreed to release strategic oil reserves over the next three months.... to ease the burden of surging global energy prices.
The agreement includes the release of over 22 million barrels of crude oil... an amount earlier coordinated with the International Energy Agency.
Authorities are also hammering out this year's first supplementary budget which they plan to submit to the National Assembly by the end of March as part of countermeasures to address the economic fallout from the conflict in the Middle East.
The extra budget largely seeks...energy supply stability and small business support.
 
4.
North Korea conducted a firepower strike drill using 600-millimeter ultra-precision multiple launch rocket systems,... with the participation of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un,... accompanied by his daughter Ju-ae,... according to the Korean Central News Agency on Sunday.
The state-run KCNA,... reported that long-range artillery units of the Korean People's Army carried out a live-fire strike drill in western areas, the previous day,... using 12 MLRS units, manned by two artillery companies, firing 600-millimeter ultra-precision rockets.
Kim Jong-un underlined that the drill was to cause uneasiness among forces hostile to the North; enemies within a 4-hundred-20 kilometer strike range.
The media also added the rockets hit an island target about 3-hundred-64-point 4 kilometers away in the East Sea with an accuracy of one-hundred-percent,... and released photos showing the rockets being launched sequentially.
This comes a day after South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff said it detected more than ten ballistic missiles launched from the Sunan area of North Korea toward the East Sea at around 1:20 PM on Saturday.
 
5.
KPop Demon Hunters captured the Oscar for Best Animated Feature at the 98th Academy Awards.
Other nominees for the same category included Zootopia 2 and Elio.

And that followed a string of major awards this year, including Best Animated Feature and Best Song at the Critics' Choice Awards, and Best Animated Motion Picture and Best Original Song at the Golden Globes.

The Netflix phenomenon also won a Grammy for Best Song Written for Visual Media, marking the first time a K-pop themed song has taken home a Grammy.
 
Moving to weather forecast,
Tomorrow in Seoul will be mostly hazy but mild, with daytime temperatures reaching around 15 degrees Celsius, while the morning starts cool at about 3 degrees.

Heading into midweek, clouds will increase on Wednesday, with some morning rain or drizzle possible before skies gradually clear later in the day. Temperatures will dip slightly, with highs near 11 degrees.

For the rest of the week, conditions turn mostly dry with periods of sunshine. Daytime highs will stay in the 13 to 16 degree range, while early morning temperatures remain close to freezing.

Looking ahead to the weekend, the weather becomes brighter and warmer, with sunny skies and highs climbing to around 16 to 18 degrees, signaling a more noticeable early spring feel.

59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Gwangju.
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’