Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
The immediate threat of war has been paused.
Just hours after warning that "a whole civilization will die," U.S. President Donald Trump announced a suspension of military strikes against Iran. 
Under the two-week ceasefire, heavily mediated by Pakistan, military escalation will be halted and the Strait of Hormuz will reopen.
U.S. President Donald Trump shortly after expressed an optimistic tone on his Truth Social platform on Tuesday, calling the newly reached truce a "big day for world peace" and predicting a "Golden Age of the Middle East." 
He added that the U.S. will help ease the massive traffic buildup in the vital waterway.
Following the announcement of a ceasefire in the Middle East, the South Korean won strengthened sharply... closing at 1,476.6 to the U.S. dollar.
This is 33.6 won lower than the day before after being mostly trapped above the critical 15-hundred threshold in recent weeks as Operation Epic Fury prolonged and investors turned to the safe-haven dollar, while global oil prices surged.
Domestic equities also rallied on the geopolitical de-escalation.
The benchmark KOSPI spiked early trading and throughout the day went up 7 percent to return to the 5,800-point mark, closing at 5,872.34

1:05

#2 45
South Korea registered an all-time high current account surplus in February, driven by semiconductors and strong exports, continuing a streak of 34 consecutive months.
According to data from the Bank of Korea released on Wednesday, the current account surplus totaled approximately 35 trillion won, or roughly 23-point-1-9 billion U.S. dollars. 
This is a sharp increase from 13-point-2-6 billion dollars in January, and surpasses the previous record of 18-point-7 billion dollars set in December of last year.
For February, the goods account recorded a 23-point-3-6 billion dollar surplus as exports increased by 29-point-9 percent compared to one year earlier to 70-point-3-7 billion dollars, and imports increased by 4 percent to 47 billion dollars on-year.

1:55

#3 40
As fuel costs continue to rise, President Lee Jae Myung today visited a local logistics hub and met truck drivers to hear about some of the problems they have been facing.
The meeting was organized to hear about the hardships of businesses affected by the closure of the Strait of Hormuz, a crucial waterway for global oil supply.
Revisions are in the works at the National Assembly to expand the scope of support, and Lee hopes for its swift approval.
Also discussed was switching to electric vehicles in the long term.
Other than a fuel price cap, the authorities plan to exempt certain highway toll fees at night and temporarily allow certain truck drivers to delay their debt repayments.

#4 45
President Lee Jae Myung hosted former Japanese Prime Minister Shigeru Ishiba for lunch at the Blue House on Wednesday.
Lee thanked Ishiba, saying ties between South Korea and Japan had become much more stable during his time in office. 
Ishiba replied that advancing Seoul-Tokyo relations had been his top diplomatic priority, and added that he was pleased to see President Lee maintaining good relations with Japan's current Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi.
This was Ishiba's first visit to South Korea since leaving office, where he attended a forum hosted by the Asan Institute for Policy Studies.
The two last met in Busan in September last year, as part of the two countries' back-and-forth leader-level diplomacy.

#5
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi will reportedly be visiting North Korea on Thursday.
According to Pyongyang's state media Korean Central News Agency on Tuesday, Wang will make a two-day visit upon the invitation of the North's foreign affairs ministry.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Mao Ning on Wednesday described their ties as "traditionally friendly neighbors," with Wang's visit serving as an important step to promote the development of bilateral relations.
This comes before the expected summit between the United States and China, amid speculation that U.S. President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping could discuss engagement with North Korea.

Moving to the weather forecast,
It felt more like early winter again today, with that lingering spring chill.
But tomorrow, we’re in for some much-needed rain across the country.
Starting early in the morning in the southwest and on Jejudo Island, the rain will spread nationwide by late morning.
Jejudo Island’s mountainous areas could see over 250 millimeters of rain, with more than 120 millimeters along the southern coast.
Also, up to 100 millimeters is expected in inland southern regions, and around 50 millimeters in the Seoul metropolitan area.

The current temperature are
_______ Degrees in Seoul
_______ Degrees in Gwangju
_______ Degrees in Busan
And _______ Degrees on Jejudo island 
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio