Welcome to Arirang News This is Park Kee hoon 
And we start with the top headlines at this hour.
1. 
In a call made after the U.S.-China summit, President Lee Jae Myung 
was briefed by U.S. President Donald Trump on the results of that 
high-stakes meeting.
Their talks over the phone on Sunday night, Korea Time, 
took about half an hour.
In a Blue House readout, President Lee congratulated his U.S. counterpart for "successfully" concluding his first state visit to Beijing 
in about nine years.
He noted the importance of managing the U.S.-China relationship 
in a stable manner for peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific 
and around the world.
Trump shared the results of his recent summit with China's Xi Jinping, ranging from Washington-Beijing relations, agreements on the trade front as well as the situation on the Korean Peninsula and in the Middle East.
Lee took note of their dialogue related to the Korean Peninsula and Trump promised his "role and contribution" for regional peace and stability in close coordination with his South Korean counterpart.

2.
President Lee Jae Myung will host Japanese Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi at his hometown of Andong tomorrow, Tuesday, for yet another 
summit session aimed at advancing practical partnership.
The meeting is the latest in a series of reciprocal visits the two sides have been building since they first met on the sidelines of last October's 
APEC summit in Gyeongju, where they agreed to pursue regular 
high-level diplomacy.
According to Presidential Chief Spokesperson Kang Yu-jung, 
the two leaders are expected to discuss practical cooperation 
across the economy, social issues, and the protection of their 
citizens abroad, with regional security and the situation in the Middle East also on the table.

3.
President Lee Jae Myung on Monday attended the 46th commemoration ceremony of the May 18 Pro-Democratization Movement in Gwangju 
and delivered an address.
The ceremony took place at the former Jeollanam-do Provincial Government Building, which served as the final stronghold of 
civic resistance during the movement, following its restoration.

4.
Peaceful relations first, before denuclearisation or unification on the Korean Peninsula.
That's the message running through Seoul's new Unification White Paper, the first under the Lee Jae Myung administration.
Released on Monday, the annual document lays out Seoul’s policy for “Peaceful Coexistence” with North Korea.
It appears to respond to the Pyongyang's "hostile two states" policy, stressing the need to move toward a (quote) 
“peaceful two-state relations geared toward unification.”
The document cites how President Lee last August pledged to respect 
the North Korean regime, to not pursue unification that subjugates 
the North, and to not commit any hostile acts.

5.
The South Korean government will begin accepting the second round 
of applications for its fuel price relief funds starting Monday.
According to the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, applications opened at 9 AM and will continue through July 3rd.
During the first week, a rotation system will be applied based on the last digit of the applicant's birth year.
Those who didn't apply during the first round will also be able to submit applications during this period.
The support program targets around 36 million people in the bottom 
70 percent income bracket.
Eligibility is based on household health insurance premium payments assessed in March of this year.
For example, a single-person household with workplace insurance 
can qualify if the monthly premiums are 130,000 won, or about 95 U.S. dollars, or less.
That is equivalent to an annual income of roughly 43-million won, or around 31-thousand dollars.