Welcome to Arirang News This is Park Kee hoon 
And we start with the top headlines at this hour.
1.
Korea’s export sector continues its robust upward trajectory, 
fueled by surging global demand for memory chips.
The Ministry of Trade, Industry and Resources reported on Monday that outbound shipments in May reached 87.7 billion U.S. dollars, a 53.2 percent surge from a year earlier. 
It is an all-time high for the month of May, and the first time exports have exceeded the 80 billion dollar mark for three consecutive months.
Imports also climbed 20.8 percent year-on-year to 60.8 billion dollars.
But despite the higher imports, the solid export performance resulted in a monthly trade surplus of 26.9 billion dollars.

2. 
South Korea's benchmark KOSPI opened at a record high of 
8-thousand 4-hundred-85 on Monday, and continued extending gains throughout the session.
According to the KRX, the surge triggered a buy-side sidecar at around 
11:30 AM, which temporarily halted program buying for five minutes.
After breaking through the 8-thousand-500 mark for the first time, 
the index successively crossed 8-thousand-600, 8-thousand-700 and 
even 8-thousand-800 during intraday trading.
The benchmark index closed up 312 point 2-3 points 
at 8-thousand-7-hundred-88-point-38.
For the first time, total market capitalization also surpassed 7-thousand-trillion won, or around 4-point-6 trillion U.S. dollars.

3. 
Korea and African countries are seeking a stronger partnership for solidarity, sustainability and shared prosperity.
The first-ever Korea–Africa Foreign Ministers’ Meeting opened in central Seoul on Monday, as Korea looks to deepen its ties with the continent amid growing competition over supply chains, critical minerals and emerging markets.
Minister Cho Hyun formally opened the three-day meeting 
that brings together representatives from 50 African countries 
and four regional organizations including the African Union.
Talks focused on strengthening economic cooperation and promoting shared prosperity through greater collaboration in areas like trade, investment, infrastructure, technology, education, food security 
and supply chains.

4.
President Lee Jae Myung has ordered an all-out response 
following an explosion that killed five people 
at a Hanwha Aerospace facility in Daejeon City.
According to the Blue House on Monday, Lee instructed authorities 
to mobilize all available resources for rescue operations 
and recovery efforts, after an explosion at around 10:59 AM on Monday 
at Hanwha Aerospace's Daejeon plant.
Five people were killed, one suffered severe burns across the body, 
and another sustained minor injuries.
The fire was brought under control within 50 minutes 
and was fully extinguished shortly after 1 PM.
President Lee called for a thorough investigation into the cause of the blast and for measures to prevent similar cases.
Prime Minister Kim Min-seok also ordered relevant agencies 
to use all available manpower and equipment for firefighting, 
rescue operations and medical support.

5.
South Korea's cultural heritage sites are attracting record numbers of visitors.
According to the Korea Heritage Service on Monday, nearly 18 million people visited the nation's royal palaces and Joseon Dynasty royal tombs last year, up nearly 13 percent from a year earlier 
and the highest figure on record.
Foreign visitors accounted for more than 4-point-2 million, 
an increase of over one million from the previous year.
The upward trend has continued this year, with more than 5-point-4 million visits recorded through April.
Officials said the BTS Gwanghwamun concert helped boost visits at nearby heritage sites.