Welcome to Arirang News This is Park Kee hoon 
And we start with the top headlines at this hour.
1. 
President Lee Jae Myung said Friday he and French President Emmanuel Macron agreed to work together to secure the safe passage through the Strait of Hormuz and mitigate the broad impact from the war in the Middle East.
Lee addressed concerns over uncertainties in global energy supply chains following summit talks with Macron, during which the two leaders discussed ways to deepen economic ties and strengthen coordination on security issues.
Macron also underscored the need for France and South Korea to cooperate to help reopen the Strait of Hormuz and deescalate conflict in the Middle East at the international level.
Lee said the two leaders also agreed to boost trade and investment with a goal of reaching $20 billion in annual bilateral trade by 2030, up from $15 billion last year.

2.
President Lee will sit down with the leaders of South Korea's two main political parties next Tuesday to discuss the economic fallout 
from the Middle East conflict.
Senior Presidential Secretary for Political Affairs Hong Ihk-pyo 
told reporters on Friday that Lee proposed the meeting himself, 
stressing the need for national unity and bipartisan cooperation 
in responding to the crisis.
The talks will be held over lunch at the Blue House, with President Lee, ruling Democratic Party chairman Jung Chung-rae, 
and Jang Dong-hyeok of the main opposition People Power Party in attendance.

3.
The Ministry of Finance and Economy unveiled emergency steps on Friday, targeting naphtha and crude oil shortages affecting daily essentials 
like food packaging and garbage bags.
As part of its plan to ease supply chain bottlenecks caused by the 
Middle East conflict, the ministry announced two major measures.
Importers will be exempt from tariffs on extra shipping costs 
caused by rerouting around the blocked Strait of Hormuz.
On top of that, quality inspections for garbage bags will be cut from 
10 days to just one day, and local governments can now 
buy and redistribute stocks without bidding limits.
The government expects these temporary changes to quickly clear 
import and production disruptions and stabilize household living costs.

4.
President Trump is once again signaling that the United States 
could launch even broader attacks on Iran.
In a post on Truth Social, Trump wrote, 
"Our Military, the greatest and most powerful anywhere in the World, hasn't even started destroying what's left in Iran," 
and suggested that the next major infrastructure targets 
could be its bridges and electric power plants.
The United States has already struck the B1 bridge, 
a major highway link between Tehran and Karaj. 
The attack came a day after Trump warned he could bomb Iran 
"back to the stone ages."

5.
As we head into the first weekend of April, 
South Korea is officially in full bloom.
After a series of unpredictable cold snaps, the cherry blossoms along Yeouido’s Yunjung-ro road have reached their peak, 
turning the road into a watercolor painting of flowers.
Visitors are enjoying the blooms nearly a week earlier than last year, 
with flowers opening on March 29, as an unseasonal surge in spring temperatures accelerated the season, according to the weather authorities.
Local officials report that over 3-hundred forty thousand visitors flocked to this area on Thursday alone, a day before the festival’s formal start.
With the festival running through Friday to next Tuesday, 
the city is prioritizing pedestrian safety. 
Traffic on nearby roads will remain fully restricted until April 8th. 
Officials are strongly advising visitors to use public transport.