Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
Israeli forces launched a wave of strikes on infrastructure in Tehran 
from Tuesday night into Wednesday. 
Iranian state media says the Revolutionary Guards responded 
with a new round of attacks on targets in Israel, 
as well as U.S. bases in the region, including Kuwait and Jordan.
Drones hit a fuel tank at Kuwait International Airport, causing a fire, 
while an Iranian missile strike also wounded at least nine people in central Israel.
Despite the ongoing conflict, U.S. President Donald Trump said Tuesday that 
talks with Iran were ongoing, adding that Tehran is eager to reach a deal.
In fact, Trump said he had received a "present" from Iran, 
worth a huge amount of money, without revealing what exactly it was.
However, Tehran has denied that any negotiations are underway, 
vowing to continue its fight.

#2 
South Korea has launched its domestically produced supersonic fighter jet.
It was a decade in the making, and President Lee Jae Myung 
hailed the first delivery of a KF-21 as a symbol of South Korea's 
"aspiration for self-reliant defense" over more than half a century.
He was speaking at a ceremony on Wednesday at the Korea Aerospace Industries headquarters in the southern city of Sacheon, 
to celebrate the launch of South Korea's new supersonic fighter jet produced using its own technology.
The event was attended by related officials, foreign ambassadors, 
and private firms.

#3
The South Korean Navy submarine Dosan Ahn Chang-ho left the Peninsula 
on Wednesday, to take part in a joint exercise with the Royal Canadian Navy, 
in the first trans-Pacific deployment for Korea's naval submarine.
The 3-thousand-ton vessel is set to sail 14-thousand kilometres 
to Esquimalt Harbour in Victoria, arriving in late May, 
before conducting combined drills with Canada in early June.
It will then join the U.S.-led RIMPAC exercise in Hawaii later that month.
The mission will mark the first Pacific crossing by a South Korean Navy submarine, and its longest voyage on record.
The Navy says the deployment is meant to underscore 
both the submarine’s operational capability and cooperation 
between the South Korean and Canadian navies.

#4
South Korea's demographic landscape saw a rare bright spot 
at the start of the year, with births and marriages 
both posting double-digit growth.
According to the Ministry of Data and Statistics on Wednesday, 
26-thousand-9-hundred-16 babies were born in January 2026.
That is an 11-point-7 percent jump from a year earlier, 
and the highest volume for any January in seven years.
Following nine consecutive years of decline since 2016, 
January births have now recorded double-digit growth for two straight years.
The total fertility rate—
the average number of children a woman is expected to have—
neared the 1-point-zero mark, 
rising by zero-point-one-zero on-year to zero-point-nine-nine.

#5
Netflix says 18-point-4 million people worldwide tuned in to watch 
"BTS Comeback Live: ARIRANG" on Saturday. 
The figures include people who watched the initial livestream as well as those who streamed the performance again within the following day
According to Netflix on Tuesday, the show ranked in the weekly top 10 in 80 countries, while reaching the number one spot in 24 countries, 
including South Korea, Mexico, Japan, the Philippines, Indonesia, and Bulgaria.
Netflix also reported that its concert-related content 
has reached 2-point-6-2 billion global social impressions to date, 
solely on its official channels,
while numerous hashtags linked to BTS and Netflix trended around the world.

Moving to the weather forecast,
It’s been unusually mild lately. 
Temperatures are about a month ahead of the average.
But we do have a large day-to-night temperature swing of around 15 to 20 degrees.
Air quality is still a big concern. 
Ultrafine dust levels will stay “bad” nationwide.
Under clear skies, dry weather advisories are in place. 

The current temperature are
_______ Degrees in Seoul
_______ Degrees in Gwangju
_______ Degrees in Busan
And _______ Degrees on Jejudo island 
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio