Welcome to Arirang News this is Jin Myong
And we start with our top headlines at this hour. 

1.
The Korean government is urgently deploying maritime and forensic experts to the Middle East
which is to investigate an explosion aboard a Korean cargo ship in the Strait of Hormuz.
According to Senior Blue House Spokesperson Kang Yu-jung on Tuesday, response measures were finalized during an emergency meeting led by Presidential Chief of Staff 
Kang Hoon-sik.

Once the damaged vessel is towed to a nearby port, safety inspectors from the Korean Register will board the ship. 
To ensure an independent probe, investigators from the Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal and forensic experts from the National Fire Agency are also being dispatched. 
The government anticipates the investigation will take several days.

 
2.

Marking Children's Day in Korea, President Lee Jae Myung welcomed children to the Blue House Today. 

Around 2-hundred children and their guardians were invited, including those from struggling rural areas, multicultural families, and those living with rare diseases.

They toured the Blue House's main building with President Lee and First Lady Kim Hea Kyung, before heading to Nokjiwon Garden.

There, the president and first lady joined them in face painting and making keychains. 

Lee's office says the first couple will also deliver low-carbohydrate snacks to children with glycogen storage disease through the Korea GSD Family Association.  

3.
U.S. President Donald Trump accused Iran of firing on a South Korean cargo ship and other targets, and he suggested it may be time for Seoul to join efforts to reopen the Strait of Hormuz.

Trump ramped up pressure on Seoul in a Truth Social post on Monday, as the U.S. launched "Project Freedom" to help guide commercial vessels through the Strait of Hormuz.

Washington said it destroyed seven Iranian boats on the first day of the operation, while rejecting Tehran's claims that it had fired warning shots at U.S. destroyers.

The U.S. also called on not only U.S. allies but China to join the effort to reopen the Strait. 

4.

Iran has attacked the United Arab Emirates for the first time since the ceasefire with the U.S. was reached around a month ago. 

The UAE says that on Monday local time, an Iranian drone struck the Fujairah oil industrial zone, injuring three workers. 
The site is a key export hub used to bypass the Strait of Hormuz.
Iran also fired sixteen missiles at the UAE, with fifteen intercepted. 
This follows a drone strike on a UAE oil tanker the previous day.

The UAE condemned the attacks as terrorism and indicated potential retaliation. 
Iranian state media denies the reports, stating it has no intention of targeting the UAE.

5.
As military tensions reignited across the Middle East, global oil prices shot up sharply.

On Monday, the international benchmark Brent futures surged 5.8% to settle above 114 dollars and 44 cents per barrel, 

its highest level since May 2022, after an Iranian drone strike caused a fire in a key oil industrial zone in the UAE city of Fujairah.

U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude also climbed more than 4 percent to close above 106 dollars.

Moving to weather forecast, 
Today marks "Ip-ha," the traditional start of summer in Korea, and Children's Day. 
We’re seeing a bright and pleasant spring day overall, but with large day-to-night temperature differences. 
In Seoul, expect a high of 22 degrees and a low of 8.
As for air quality, fine dust levels will range from "good" to "moderate" nationwide. 
However, UV levels will be very high nationwide, and ozone concentrations are also expected to rise. 
So, extra caution is needed if you plan to spend extended time outdoors.