Welcome to Arirang News This is Park Kee hoon And we start with the top headlines at this hour. 1. Pyongyang held a large-scale military parade on Wednesday night to mark the 9th Congress of the Workers' Party of Korea, but no major weapons systems appeared to be on display. It's believed to be the first time in a decade that North Korea has not placed weapons or military equipment at the forefront of a key parade. Kim Jong-un's daughter, Ju-ae, also attended the military parade, drawing attention for her attire as she appeared in a matching leather jacket with her father and took a central position on the stairs. According to the North's state-run Korean Central News Agency on Thursday, Kim Jong-un presented a report at the 9th Congress, reaffirming the regime’s strategic line of bolstering its nuclear capabilities. He reasserted the permanent status of North Korea as a nuclear weapons state and his commitment to maintaining defense capabilities. He also outlined a new five-year plan for defense buildup, citing on-land and underwater-launched ICBMs, AI-equipped drones, surveillance satellites and strategic and electric weapons. 2. Meanwhile, President Lee Jae Myung once again vowed to continue his peace drive against North Korea, as he was critical of a hawkish stance by his predecessor. Pursing values of peace and stability, while ending the past that was dashing towards confrontation and war, was the response by President Lee Jae Myung to a hostile message by North Korea's Kim Jong-un, condemning the South during the regime's recent political event. President Lee was critical of his predecessor's hawkish stance on North Korea and those who criticize his view as "submissive," as he opened Thursday's weekly meeting with his aides. 3. South Korea and the United Arab Emirates have agreed to pursue defense cooperation projects worth 35 billion U.S. dollars. That's according to Presidential Chief of Staff Kang Hoon-sik, who returned from the UAE on Thursday after serving as President Lee Jae Myung's special envoy for strategic economic cooperation. Kang said he reached the agreement during talks with Khaldoon Khalifa Al Mubarak, Abu Dhabi’s Executive Affairs Authority Chairman. The two sides signed a memorandum of understanding outlining cooperation in weapons design, training, and maintenance. Kang also delivered a personal letter from President Lee inviting UAE President Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan to visit South Korea. The two leaders held a summit last November during Lee's state visit to the UAE. 4. The Bank of Korea has yet again frozen the benchmark interest rate at 2.5 percent. The decision came unanimously on Thursday after a monetary policy board meeting. Entering 2025, the benchmark rate stood at 3.0 percent. Since May last year, the Board hasn't changed the rates for six monetary policy committee meetings. 5. South Korea's National Assembly today passed a revised Criminal Act bill, creating the crime of "legal distortion," after a ruling party-led motion brought an end to an opposition filibuster and the bill cleared the chamber in a vote. The amendment, one of the Democratic Party’s three flagship judicial reform measures, limits its application to criminal cases and clarifies its provisions amid earlier concerns over constitutionality. Following the vote, lawmakers moved on to the next item on the agenda, a revision to the Constitutional Court Act introducing a judicial complaint system, which was formally reported to the floor. The People Power Party immediately launched another filibuster, vowing to resist what it calls an excessive overhaul of the judicial system.