Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
Bolstering the partnership was the focal point 
as President Lee Jae Myung hosted his Ghanaian counterpart John Mahama, 
noting the two countries' shared experiences of achieving democracy 
and the increasing trade volume.
Maritime security was also high on the agenda.
MOUs were signed on Wednesday for cooperation not only on maritime security, but also on technology and science, as well as joint tackling of climate change.
There was a friendly atmosphere as the leaders touched upon a link 
between the two countries represented by 'Ghana' chocolate, 
a chocolate bar made from Ghanaian cocoa 
that was launched in Korea more than 50 years ago.
Lee has presented Mahama with the chocolate, 
who's on a working visit to South Korea.
The sentiment was extended to cultural and people-to-people exchanges.
Seoul's top office added that the leaders also addressed regional
and global issues, including the Middle East and said 
it hoped to expand the nation's diplomatic horizons.

#2
Global oil prices recorded their largest one-day decline 
since March 2022 on Tuesday, local time, based on closing prices.
Brent crude futures on the Intercontinental Exchange settled 
at 87-point-8 U.S. dollars per barrel, down 11 percent from the previous day. 
WTI crude settled at 83-point-45 dollars per barrel 
on the New York Mercantile Exchange, falling nearly 12 percent.
Just a day earlier, on Monday, global oil prices had spiked dramatically, 
with Brent briefly hitting 119 dollars per barrel 
due to volatility stemming from fears over supply disruptions in the Middle East, particularly through the Strait of Hormuz.
The sharp reversal came after U.S. President Donald Trump signaled 
an early resolution in the conflict in the Middle East. 

#3
South Korea is aggressively deploying all available policy tools 
to shield its economy from the escalating situation in the Middle East.
This came on Wednesday as the government, 
recognizing that domestic pumps often lag behind global price drops, 
upgraded its regular economic meetings to an emergency status 
and elevated its joint response task force to the vice-ministerial level.
Global energy markets have been rocked by extreme volatility, 
with the impact lingering nationwide.
The national average price of gasoline has surged past 1,905 won per liter, 
with prices in Seoul nearing 1,950 won.
The Seoul average even surpassed 2-thousand won at one point.
While recent international oil trends have shown signs of cooling 
over hopes of an end to Operation Epic Fury, 
the government remains on high alert, closely monitoring price trajectories.

#4
North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has once again observed the test-firing 
of strategic cruise missiles from the Choe Hyon, 
a 5-thousand-ton multipurpose destroyer. 
The launches came as Seoul and Washington 
kicked off their annual joint military exercise Freedom Shield on Monday, 
which the North has long denounced despite them being defensive in nature.
According to a report from the North's state media, 
the Korean Central News Agency on Wednesday, the tests took place on Tuesday, and were observed by Kim Jong-un by video. 
The KCNA said multiple cruise missiles were launched in quick succession 
along flight trajectories set over the Yellow Sea 
and flew for just under 3 hours before striking designated targets. 
Kim expressed satisfaction that the tests verified the reliability 
of the national integrated control system 
for strategic weapons and the superiority 
of the destroyer's integrated combat system.
Similar strategic cruise missile launches were conducted earlier this month, 
ahead of the Choe Hyon's commissioning, 
which Kim had observed from the site alone.

#5
Over the weekend, the world observed International Women's Day, celebrating the progress made while reflecting on key challenges that still lie ahead in terms of advancing gender equality.
The UN Women's center in Seoul held a ceremony to commemorate the day on Wednesday, to invite experts to delve into the discourse.

Moving to the weather forecast,
Most regions have been trapped by unwelcomed spring guest dusty air for several days now but the dust should begin to clear late tomorrow afternoon as cleaner northeasterly winds move in, starting from the eastern regions.
Then starting tomorrow afternoon, rain is expected in southern parts of Korea and east coast. 
East of Gangwon State might get snow instead with 5 to 15 centimeters expected through Friday.

The current temperature are
_______ Degrees in Seoul
_______ Degrees in Gwangju
_______ Degrees in Busan
And _______ Degrees on Jejudo island
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio