Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
A South Korean-operated bulk carrier stranded in the Strait of Hormuz for more than two months is now being towed toward Dubai after an engine room explosion and fire left the vessel disabled at sea on Monday.
The ship's owner, HMM, said it contracted a company in the United Arab Emirates to tow the HMM Namu, with the ship expected to arrive at Dubai Port as early as Thursday.
Once docked, authorities will begin a full investigation into the cause of the unexplained explosion and fire.

The investigation is also expected to examine claims made by U.S. President Donald Trump that the ship may have acted independently inside the restricted area near the Strait of Hormuz.
HMM denied those allegations, stating that the ship had been waiting near the control line for restrictions to be lifted but was not within the expanded control zone.
The company also noted that hundreds of vessels, including four operated by HMM, were in the area at the time, making any unilateral movement unlikely.
South Korea’s Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries plans to dispatch investigators, including officials from the Korea Maritime Safety Tribunal, to determine the exact cause of the accident.
2.
President Lee Jae Myung has called for the need to prioritize measures to tamp down higher prices due to uncertainties over ending the conflict in the Middle East.

Presiding over a weekly meeting with his aides on Thursday, the president noted that pressure on prices will pose a significant burden on economic recovery if it persists, citing a rise in consumer prices last month.

He also called on officials to deploy all-out measures to manage supply chains, such as those for crude oil and key materials.
 
3.

South Korea's equity market has overtaken Canada's as the world's seventh largest, powered by surging demand for AI chips. 

The total market capitalization of Korea-listed companies has jumped 71 percent this year to 4-point-59 trillion U.S. dollars.
Canada's market, however, rose only about seven percent to 4-point-5 trillion U.S. dollars, falling behind Korea in global rankings.
The rally has been led largely by Samsung Electronics and SK hynix, Korea's two biggest chipmakers.

Samsung Electronics recently crossed the one-trillion-dollar valuation mark, while both companies have seen their shares more than double this year.
Together, the two companies account for about 45 percent of the KOSPI's total market value.
 
4.
According to the Defense Acquisition Program Administration on Thursday,... the KF-21 has received final operational combat certification.

This means the fighter has met the Korean Air Force’s Required Operational Capabilities,... and that the Block-One air-to-air combat variant of the aircraft,... has been confirmed reliable to operate in real-world conflicts.

This comes three years after the aircraft received a provisional operational combat assessment in May 2023.

The KF-21's development program is slated to be completed in June,... and the first mass-produced aircraft is to be delivered to the Air Force as early as late September.

The state-run agency is planning to further secure air-to-ground combat capabilities through additional weapons testing.
 
5.
Ahead of U.S. President Donald Trump's visit to China next week, his armored limousine and motorcade SUVs have been spotted in Beijing. 

Reports say black limousines and SUVs with U.S. plates were seen on highways in Beijing, signaling a major security buildup ahead of one of this year's most closely watched diplomatic events.
At the center of the motorcade is "The Beast," the presidential limousine.

The custom-built Cadillac is designed to withstand bullets and explosions, and is equipped with bulletproof glass and advanced security systems, earning its nickname, the "White House on wheels."

Trump is set to visit Beijing for two days from the 14th, and is reportedly unlikely to travel outside the capital. 

 
Moving to weather forecast,
Skies will be clear nationwide again tomorrow.
But daytime temperatures will dip slightly across central regions.
Temperatures will begin to rise again over the weekend, with Saturday’s high expected to reach 23 degrees Celsius.

Meanwhile, light rain across the Seoul metropolitan area, inland and mountainous areas of Gangwon-do, Chungcheong-do, and western Jeolla-do provinces will all taper off by tonight. 

UV levels will be "very high" in most areas tomorrow between noon and 3 PM.
As for temperatures, Seoul will start the day at 10 degrees, Chuncheon at 9 degrees, Daegu at 12 degrees.
Then by the afternoon, Seoul will rise up to 20 degrees, Daejeon 21, and Busan, 23 degrees.
And, looking ahead to the weekend, we'll see clear skies and pleasant spring weather across the country.

59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Pyeongchang
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island
59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’