Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
President Lee Jae Myung and first lady Kim Hea Kyung visited a neighborhood community center near Cheong Wa Dae on Friday to cast their ballots in early voting for the upcoming local elections.

Wearing a gray tie, Lee and his wife cast ballots at the Samcheong neighborhood community center for the June 3 elections in Incheon's Gyeyang-B district, where the first couple's personal residence is registered.

The two-day early voting began earlier Friday for the local elections and parliamentary by-elections, in which 16 mayoral and gubernatorial posts will be contested, along with 227 local government chief positions and some 4,000 seats on local councils. Voters can cast their ballots at any of more than 3,500 polling stations across the nation from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Friday and Saturday.

The upcoming elections are the first major ones for the Lee administration since it took office in June and thus widely regarded as a referendum on its first year in office.
 
2.
A draft of the National Defense Authorization Act submitted by the U.S. House of Representatives for the fiscal year 2027 contains strengthened restrictions on the use of funds to reduce the number of U.S. Forces Korea troops.

Released by the House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mike Rogers on Friday,... the NDAA for fiscal year from October this year to September next year says that no funds authorized under the act may be “obligated or expended” for the purpose of reducing the number of U.S. troops stationed in South Korea below 28-thousand-500.

The "FY2027 NDAA" draft goes further than this year’s version by broadening the funding restrictions on reducing U.S. troops in South Korea.
It bars not only NDAA funds, but also any funds allocated in fiscal years 2026 and 2027, from being used for troop cuts.
The latest House draft also includes provisions aimed at strongly limiting the U.S. president’s ability to make unilateral decisions regarding the reduction or redeployment of troops stationed in Europe.

The NDAA must pass both the House and Senate,... and thus, this version could still change during negotiations with the Senate before the bill is finalized.
3.
Korea must play a larger role in global climate diplomacy,... amid weakening global leadership in an increasingly contested world.
That’s according to experts and officials attending a forum in Seoul,... hosted by the Seoul International Law Academy.

The forum featured presentations on energy security and emissions reduction,... followed by a broader discussion between government officials, academics, industry experts and media.
 
4.

Samsung Electronics has begun shipping samples of its latest high-bandwidth memory chip, becoming the first in the industry to supply 12-layer HBM4E samples.

The chip giant said it has started delivering the latest memory chip to major clients, following the launch of mass production for HBM4 in February.

Samsung said the new HBM4E offers faster speeds and greater bandwidth than its predecessor, while also improving capacity and energy efficiency.

Meanwhile,
NVIDIA CEO Jensen Huang will be in South Korea next week... for a second visit... in some seven months.

On his agenda are talks... with executives... from Samsung Electronics... SK hynix... LG... and Naver... to name a few... to address... high-bandwidth memory... physical AI... and cloud computing... respectively.

Moving to weather forecast,
Under mostly sunny skies nationwide this weekend, temperatures will climb to summer-like levels.

By Sunday, Seoul will rise to 30 degrees, while Pohang is forecast to soar to 34 degrees. Many areas across the country will top the 30-degree mark.

Strong sunshine will dominate throughout tomorrow.
UV levels are expected to reach the "extreme" levels on Jeju Island, while most other regions will see "very high" UV levels.
Ozone concentrations will also be on the rise.

Meanwhile, Typhoon Jangmi is heading northward, south of Japan.
Although it won't directly impact Korea, rough seas are expected around Jeju Island from Tuesday next week.

59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Pyeongchang
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’