Welcome to Arirang News This is Park Kee hoon 
And we start with the top headlines at this hour.
1. 
A cargo vessel operated by South Korean shipping company HMM, damaged by an onboard explosion and fire near the Strait of Hormuz, arrived at Drydocks World Dubai, the Middle East’s largest ship repair facility, on Friday.
According to HMM and local officials, the vessel was towed from waters near Umm Al Quwain in the United Arab Emirates and reached the Dubai Port area shortly after midnight Thursday, roughly 12 hours after towing operations began.
South Korean authorities have launched a full-scale investigation into the incident, with on-site inspections now underway.

2.
The leaders of Korea and Canada discussed ways to deepen bilateral ties during talks on the phone on Friday.
According to Senior Blue House Spokesperson {강유정}Kang Yu-jung, President Lee Jae Myung expressed hopes for productive partnership in areas such as security and energy and these hopes were shared by Prime Minister Mark Carney.
They also agreed to work together to support a peaceful resolution to the situation in the Middle East and ensure freedom of navigation through the Strait of Hormuz.
The call came as Korea and Germany compete for a multi-billion-dollar submarine deal with Canada.
The preferred bidder is expected to be announced next month.

3.
Korea’s current account surplus reached a record high in March, 
fueled by a surge in exports of information technology products 
such as semiconductors and computer peripherals.
According to preliminary data from the Bank of Korea on Friday, 
the country’s current account recorded a surplus of 
37-point-3-3 billion U.S. dollars in March.
This is the largest monthly surplus ever recorded, which is up 
289-point-7 percent year-on-year, and 61 percent higher than February, which was previous record monthly high.
As a result, the account surplus in March recorded the 
35th consecutive month in the black.

4.
A U.S. federal trade court has ruled that President Donald Trump 
exceeded his authority by imposing a 10-percent global tariff 
on imported goods.
In a 2-1 decision issued on Thursday local time, the Court of 
International Trade invalidated the administration’s use of Section 122 
of the Trade Act and that it was not intended to address the types of 
trade deficits cited by Trump.
The businesses argued the tariffs were an attempt to bypass a 
Supreme Court ruling that struck down Trump’s 2025 tariffs 
imposed under emergency economic powers.
The legal challenge follows months of friction over the administration's use of executive authority to bypass congressional oversight on trade policy.
Responding to the ruling, the Blue House said on Friday, local time, 
that Korea will continue to closely monitor related developments 
while seeking to maintain a balance of interests under its current tariff deal with the U.S.
An official noted that the ruling currently applies only to specific plaintiffs, and pointed out that Section 122 tariffs are limited by law to a maximum of 150 days.
5.
President Lee Jae Myung marked Parents' Day today with solemn words of comfort to the parents of firefighters and police officers who lost their lives in the line of duty.
"No words can fully comfort the pain of losing a child.
We will solemnly remember the noble sacrifice of those who fulfilled their duties."
The words were shared during a related ceremony hosted by the Korean Senior Citizens Association earlier this morning.
The president and First Lady Kim Hea Kyung also took time to engage in a gesture of gratitude common during Parents' Day here that is the pinning of carnations on parents by their children.