Welcome to Arirang News This is Park Kee hoon 
And we start with the top headlines at this hour.
1. 
As tensions escalate amid unresolved ceasefire negotiations between Washington and Tehran, the U.S. will begin enforcing a maritime blockade on all vessels entering or leaving Iranian ports within hours.
The U.S. Central Command announced the measure on Sunday, saying the blockade will begin at 10 AM Eastern Standard Time on Monday.
The blockade will not apply to ships that are destined for ports outside of Iran.
President Trump had confirmed the timing of the blockade in a Truth Social post.
The move is allegedly seen as a countermeasure to Iran's continued control of the Strait of Hormuz despite a ceasefire agreement.
By targeting Iran's maritime trade, especially its oil exports, Washington seeks to increase pressure on Tehran.

2
President Lee Jae Myung and Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk 
agreed to upgrade the bilateral ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and bolster cooperation in the defense industry and energy supply chains during their summit talks Monday at the Blue House. 
Lee said the two leaders agreed to elevate bilateral relations 
to pave the way for deeper cooperation across a broad range of sectors, expressing hope for further advancing "mutually beneficial" 
defense industry ties.
The Polish Prime Minister's visit comes less than two weeks after President Lee hosted the leaders of France and Indonesia at the Blue House.

3.
The National Assembly convened Monday afternoon for the final day of its three-day interpellation session, with lawmakers turning their focus to education, society, and cultural affairs.”
Prime Minister Kim Min-seok joined key cabinet members
including the ministers of justice, interior, and education
for a wide-ranging round of questioning that touched on several 
sensitive issues.
Political tensions ran high as lawmakers clashed over a series of 
legal controversies.
At the heart of the controversy were allegations of prosecutorial misconduct, and a decision not to indict a ruling party mayoral candidate in Busan 
over alleged illicit payments tied to a religious group.
Opposition lawmakers pressed Justice Minister Chung Sung-ho 
on that decision, raising concerns about fairness and potential political bias in the investigation.

4.
North Korean leader Kim Jong-un stressed that the regime's top priority 
is to further develop traditional ties with China during his meeting with 
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi.
According to the Korean Central News Agency, the meeting took place on Friday, the last day of Wang Yi's two-day visit to Pyongyang which marked the first trip to the North since 2019.
The regime supported China's policy of building a “multipolar world," 
and said it is important to strengthen cooperation to safeguard common interests and ensure the sustained development of bilateral ties.
In response, Wang Yi highlighted China's willingness to develop friendly relations, saying the ties have entered a “new phase of development” following the last year's summit between Xi and Kim.

5.
Global oil prices surge again as tensions around the 
Strait of Hormuz intensify.
After ceasefire talks collapsed, Trump's next move was to announce a 
U.S. blockade targeting Iranian ports and vessels.
With Iran closing off a key shipping route and Washington's blockade, 
traffic through the Strait of Hormuz has become increasingly disrupted.
Brent crude futures jumped 8.7 percent from the previous session 
to above 103 dollars a barrel.
U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude also surged by roughly 8.7 percent, nearing 105 dollars a barrel.