Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
The summit between U.S. President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping ended on Friday with a symbolic gesture at the walled-off Zhongnanhai complex.

The two had lunch and tea at the special venue... and President Xi offered a rare glimpse into the private imperial gardens—a gesture typically reserved for China’s closest allies.
Both leaders characterized the three-day visit as a fundamental shift in bilateral ties.
President Trump praised the personal rapport he has built with his counterpart over the last decade, suggesting their chemistry has allowed them to bypass traditional diplomatic gridlock.
On the economic front, President Trump indicated that he is returning to Washington with significant progress toward "fantastic trade deals."
In an interview with Fox News, Trump described President Xi as "all business," noting a pragmatic commitment to economic coordination.
The U.S. leader said China has committed to major purchases of American goods, including a large order of Boeing aircraft and a significant increase in imports of U.S. agricultural products, specifically soybeans... while gradually opening parts of its economy to U.S. businesses.
To manage these ongoing economic ties, the two sides have agreed to establish a new "Board of Trade" to handle disputes without immediately resorting to new tariffs.

However... no joint statement or declaration was adopted by the two leaders for this trip.
The two will meet again this year as on Thursday Trump invited Xi to the U.S. in September.

2.
Debris from the unidentified aerial vehicle that struck a Korean-operated vessel near the Strait of Hormuz, has arrived in Seoul for detailed forensic analysis.

The foreign ministry said Friday that the fragments were transported by air on Thursday following consultations with United Arab Emirates authorities.
The debris includes engine parts collected from the scene of the attack last week on HMM Namu, moored in waters off the UAE.

A government investigation team examined the wreckage in Dubai, before it was stored at the South Korean Embassy in the UAE.
 
3.
The Defense Ministry is reportedly planning... to make public... South Korea's blueprint... for nuclear-powered submarines... as early as... the end of this month.

According to sources... the road map will share... the submarines' defensive nature... in compliance with the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty... as well as the overall timeline.

The move... is seen... as an effort to speed up related negotiations... regarding the program... amid slow progress in follow-up talks with the U.S.
 
4.
Korea's benchmark KOSPI passed above the 8-thousand mark for the first time ever during trading on Friday.

The index closed at 7-thousand-4-hundred-93-point18,... down 6.12 percent from the previous session.
The move above 8-thousand came roughly ten minutes after the opening bell,... just seven trading days after first breaking through the 7-thousand mark.
Yet sharp swings dominated trading throughout the day.
The index seesawed between gains and losses before falling as much as seven percent from the previous session during trading, triggering a sell-side sidecar at one point.

Unlike the previous rally led by the country's chip giants, Friday's gains were powered by a wider group of market heavyweights.
Samsung Electronics and SK hynix both ended lower, while shares of LG Electronics and Hyundai Motor moved higher.

All of the gainers are part of the broader AI value chain,... including sectors tied to memory chips, energy, and semiconductor materials.

During Friday's session, foreign investors continued to take profits from major chipmakers.
 
5.

Japan's Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi will take a two-day trip to South Korea next week for a summit with President Lee Jae Myung.

According to the Blue House on Friday, they will sit down on May 19th in Lee's hometown of Andong, which will involve an expanded session, joint press conference and dinner.

Seoul's top office says the leaders will discuss bilateral ties as well as cooperation on the economy and society.
Also on the agenda is the situation in the Middle East.
And there's interest in whether they discuss possible cooperation on energy supply and critical minerals.

The leaders last met in Takaichi's hometown of Nara prefecture in January.
 
6.
President Lee Jae Myung had a go at rice-planting today, at a village in {대구}Daegu's {군위군}Gunwi-gun County.

As rice-planting season gets underway in South Korea, the president operated a rice transplanter and observed a drone spraying pesticides over the fields.
He later shared a meal of noodles and traditional Korean rice wine {막걸리}makgeolli, with local residents.

President Lee wished farmers a successful harvest this year and expressed his gratitude for their hard work, saying he was able to see firsthand the tremendous effort they put in on the ground.
 
Moving to weather forecast,
Inland regions will continue to see big day-to-night temperature swings of around 15 degrees Celsius in many areas.

Clear skies tomorrow will bring strong sunshine throughout the day.
That means UV levels will be "very high" nationwide during the daytime.
Ozone concentrations are also expected to be "bad" in the capital area, Chungcheong-do, and Jeollabuk-do provinces.

As for temperatures, Seoul will start the day at 18 degrees, Daejeon, 15, and Busan, 14 degrees. 
Then by the afternoon, Seoul will get up to 31 degrees, Chuncheon and Daejeon, 31, and Daegu, up to even 33 degrees. 

The early-season heat should finally back off around Wednesday next week, as rain moves into the country.

59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Pyeongchang
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’