Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
President Lee Jae Myung has called for the need to speed up reforming the nation's capital market amid the crisis in the Middle East, vowing to overcome the so-called "Korea discount."
He was speaking at a dialogue session with investors, firms and financial authorities on Wednesday, saying that beyond overcoming the external challenge, the country should take the lead in carrying out reforms.
Noting the so-called "Korea discount," President Lee Jae Myung once again promised to close the valuation gap between local equities and global peers by addressing corporate governance issues.
President Lee focused not only on cracking down on stock manipulation and enhancing the predictability of economic policies, but also on geopolitical risks.
The financial authorities plan to introduce the naming and shaming of undervalued stocks and reorganize the KOSDAQ market by separating more mature firms from less mature ones.
Curbing double listings was also a focal point.

#2
President Lee Jae Myung has sent letters of appreciation to foreign leaders for their help in evacuating Koreans from the Middle East.
The Blue House says he sent letters on Tuesday to Japan's Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi, Qatari Emir Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud.
Hundreds of South Koreans returned home earlier this month from Riyadh and Doha on civil and military planes as well as a Japanese chartered flight.

#3
South Korea has secured an additional 18 million barrels of cruide oil from the United Arab Emirates, with the UAE pledging to give Seoul top prioirty in oil supplies amid growing concerns over global energy markets due to the ongoing Middle East crisis.
Presidential chief of staff Kang Hoon-sik made the announcement on Wednesday during a press briefing upon returning from his trip to the UAE.
Kang said that the UAE promised South Korea as their "number one priority" in terms of its oil supply, reassuring that South Korea has avoided the worst-case scenario of an oil supply crisis, and will not face a situation where crude oil supplies are cut off.
Kang also noted that under emergency arrangements between the two countries, South Korea will be able to make emergency purchases of crude oil from the UAE at any time.

#4
South Korea raised its oil supply crisis alert to the third-highest level in its four-tier system on Wednesday as the Middle East conflict begins to disrupt global energy markets.
The industry ministry said the move reflects growing instability, including damage to production and transport facilities in major Middle Eastern oil producers, as well as the closure of the Strait of Hormuz.
Global oil prices have surged around 40 percent since the outbreak of the conflict, increasing volatility and raising concerns over potential disruptions to Korea’s crude imports.
In response, the government plans to release strategic reserves in coordination with the International Energy Agency while strengthening energy-saving measures to manage demand.

#5
Trump dropped his push for allies to join in protecting the Strait of Hormuz, while expressing his anger and dissatisfaction against not just European countries but also South Korea.
Trump was really outraged, according to Republican Senator Lindsey Graham
who posted on the social media X on Tuesday, where he said he has never seen Trump get that angry in his life. 
He and Trump discussed the passive attitude of European allies toward military support to maintain passage through the Strait of Hormuz, where he said he sympathized with Trump as the passage through the strait benefits Europe more than the U.S.
He further warned that if European allies do not support controlling the Strait of Hormuz, it will lead to extensive and severe repercussions for both Europe and the U.S.

Moving to the weather forecast,
With moisture lingering from today’s rain and temperatures set to drop tomorrow, some areas may see fog developing. Tomorrow, we’ll see mostly cloudy skies across the country.
Meanwhile, large temperature swings are expected. Starting tomorrow, morning temperatures will drop below freezing in inland areas, with Seoul seeing a day-to-night temperature difference of around 10 degrees Celsius. 

The current temperature are
_______ Degrees in Seoul
_______ Degrees in Gwangju
_______ Degrees in Busan
And _______ Degrees on Jejudo island 
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio