Welcome to Arirang News this is Jin Myong
And we start with our top headlines at this hour. 

1.
Korea has made public... its first formal nuclear-powered submarine plan... based on non-proliferation principles.
The plan was released by the Defense Ministry on this Tuesday... with the envisioned submarines... targeted... for launch in the mid-2030s... and deployment... in the late 2030s.
The submarines will use low-enriched uranium reactors... be built domestically... and remain under U.S. coordination and IAEA safeguards.
President Lee Jae Myung ... for his part... says... the nuclear-powered submarines will symbolise South Korea's resolve... to resume responsibility... for peace and security... on the Korean Peninsula.
 

2.

Korea's benchmark KOSPI has reclaimed the eight-thousand mark, closing at an all-time high of 8047.51 points on Tuesday.
The rally was largely driven by the return of foreign investors.
Their purchases were heavily concentrated in the semiconductor sector.
As a result, the nation's tech giants saw historic milestones, with Samsung Electronics crossing the 300-thousand won mark at one point and SK hynix surpassing two million won. 
Another major factor lifting investor sentiment was the sharp drop in international oil prices, amid growing expectations of a U.S.-Iran ceasefire agreement.
Despite hopes for peace, experts remain cautious as any slowing demand for memory chipmakers, and high interest rates could bring short-term volatility to the market.  
3.
Here on the peninsula.
North Korea launched... short-range ballistic missiles... toward the West Sea... earlier on this Tuesday afternoon.
South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff says... the missiles were detected... at around 1PM... originating from North Korea's Jeongju area... in Pyonganbuk-do Province... and flew... some 80 kilometers.
Intelligence officials here... and their U.S. counterparts... shared relevant information... and tracked related movements... from the early stages of the launch... while exchanging data... with neighboring Japan... as well.
This latest launch marks... North Korea's first ballistic missile provocation... in 37 days… and its eighth ballistic missile launch... this year.

 

4.

U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio has signaled that Washington still wants to keep diplomacy alive with Iran.
Speaking during a diplomatic visit to India, Rubio said discussions are underway in Qatar and that reaching an agreement could take a couple of days.

This comes as the United States has carried out strikes in southern Iran.
U.S. Central Command said the “self-defense strikes” were aimed at protecting American troops. 
Iran has not yet issued a response to the latest U.S. strikes.
Meanwhile, Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesperson confirmed that two sides had reached agreements, but no one can make a claim that signing of an agreement is imminent. 

5. 
BTS won the top honor, "Artist of the Year," at the 2026 American Music Awards held in Las Vegas on Monday, local time.
It marked the group's second win in the category, following its historic victory in 2021.
BTS also picked up two additional trophies --- "Song of the Summer" for "Swim," and "Best Male K-pop Artist" --- sweeping all three categories in which the group was nominated.
Also at the ceremony, "KPop Demon Hunters" took home four trophies, including "Song of the Year" for "Golden" from its soundtrack.
KATSEYE also emerged as another standout winner, earning three awards, including "New Artist of the Year."

 
Moving to weather forecast, 
The wet weather will continue into tomorrow morning across the capital area and Chungcheongnam-do Province, while Jeolla-do and Chungcheongbuk-do provinces could see rain lingering into tomorrow afternoon.
A heavy rain warning remains in effect for the mountainous areas of Jeju Island, where more than 250 millimeters is expected through tomorrow.
The south coast could receive over 150 millimeters, while parts of the central regions may pick up as much as 60 millimeters.
Strong winds will accompany the rain as well.
Mountainous areas of Jeju Island, currently under a strong wind advisory, could see wind gusts exceeding 25 meters per second through early tomorrow morning.
Tomorrow, Seoul will start the day at 21 degrees, Chuncheon 18 and Daegu 19 degrees.
Then by the afternoon, Seoul will get up to 25, Daegu 22, and Gwangju 28 degrees.
After the rain moves out, skies will gradually clear, and temperatures will start rising again.