Welcome to Arirang News This is Park Kee hoon 
And we start with the top headlines at this hour.
1. 
The day after a set of attacks was identified as the cause of the recent fire on a South Korean cargo ship stranded in Hormuz, National Security Adviser Wi Sung-lac sent out a strong condemnation, saying any attack on civilian ships, including HMM Namu, is not justifiable or acceptable."
The Korean government has confirmed that attacks by two unidentified aircraft were behind last week's fire on the cargo vessel.
It is still learning about the details, including the source of the attack.
Wi added that Seoul will double its efforts to secure the safety of Korean sailors and vessels near the Strait... and continue its efforts to join an international move to guarantee the safety of all vessels and freedom of navigation.

2.
South Korea's defense minister Ahn Gyu-back arrived in Washington D.C., on Sunday local time for talks with his U.S. counterpart Pete Hegseth.
In his first visit to the U.S. since taking office in July last year, Ahn is expected to stay for four days and three nights,
before returning to South Korea on Wednesday.
The two defense chiefs are slated to have talks on Monday morning 
at the Pentagon, with key items expected to include the transfer of wartime operational control from Washington to Seoul.

3.
Chip heavyweights powered the KOSPI to yet another record close Monday, with the benchmark index ending 4.32 percent higher at 7822.24.
Just three trading days after breaking through 7,000 for the first time, 
the index is already nearing 8,000, with strong buying momentum triggering a buy-side sidecar shortly after opening.
Powered by the rally, Korea's total stock market capitalization topped 
7-thousand trillion won, approximately 4.7 trillion U.S. dollars 
for the first time ever Monday.
The country's two chip giants once again dominated the rally, 
making up roughly four-fifths of the KOSPI's gains.
Samsung Electronics rose 6 percent, while SK hynix surged 12 percent.
Monday's rally followed growing optimism for memory chip stocks 
in overseas markets over the weekend.

4.
Korea is facing severe inflationary threats as global oil prices surge 
amid the ongoing conflict in the Middle East.
As of early Monday for Korea, Brent crude was trading at around 105 U.S. dollars per barrel, while Dubai crude was trading at 97 dollars a barrel.
The sustained geopolitical tension has left critical waterways 
like the Strait of Hormuz effectively paralyzed, 
severely disrupting global energy supply chains. 
According to a report released on Monday by the Korea Development Institute, a 10 percent rise in oil prices driven by transport uncertainty 
pushes domestic consumer inflation up by 0.20 percentage points.
This is nearly double the 0.11 percentage point impact 
observed during standard market fluctuations. 
The KDI warns that if Dubai crude sustains an average of 105 dollars a barrel, South Korea could see consumer inflation rise by 1.6 percentage points 
this year. 

5.
South Korea is launching a second round of cash handouts to help 
Korean citizens hit hard by soaring fuel prices amid the Middle East unrest.
The handouts target the bottom 70 percent of income earners 
who account for roughly 36 million people.
Eligible residents who live in the Seoul metropolitan area will receive 
1-hundred thousand won while those in rural areas may receive up to 
2-hundred-50-thousand won.
Eligibility is tied to health insurance payments from March and those with high-value assets or significant financial income are excluded.