Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
According to The Wall Street Journal on Tuesday, Trump recently directed aides to prepare for an extended blockade of Iranian ports.
Citing U.S. officials, the report said Trump will continue pressuring Iran’s economy and oil exports by restricting its ports.
Officials said Trump viewed his other options — resuming military strikes or stepping away from the conflict altogether — as carrying greater political and strategic risks.
Still, the strategy could prolong a conflict that has already pushed gas prices up, hurt Trump’s approval ratings and raised concerns among Republicans ahead of this year’s midterm elections.
In a Truth Social post on Tuesday, Trump claimed Iran had told the U.S. it was in a "state of collapse," suggesting the current pressure campaign is severely damaging Tehran’s economy. 
A senior U.S. official said Iran is struggling to store unsold oil and has recently reached out to Washington.

#2
The head of U.S. Forces Korea, Army General Xavier Brunson, has outlined a new potential strategy to combine the military capabilities of South Korea, Japan, and possibly the Philippines, to create a faster and more flexible networked system across land, sea, and air as well as the space, cyber, and electromagnetic arenas.
In an interview with The Japan Times, published Tuesday, Brunson said these complementary capabilities have to be linked into a "kill web" that achieves combined, joint, all-domain effects. 
He added that it would enable a more coordinated response to regional security threats from North Korea, China, and Russia.
Brunson emphasized that South Korea, Japan, and the Philippines all U.S. alliances cannot afford to exist in isolation, but connected, the overlapping strengths leave "no single axis for an adversary to plan against."

#3
Tokyo has scrapped its decades-old ban on exporting lethal weapons, aiming to bolster allies as security tensions with China and North Korea intensify. 
Following this move, the Japanese government has launched discussions to revise three key security-related documents by the end of this year.
During the first meeting of an expert panel at the Prime Minister’s Office in Tokyo, voices emerged calling for a reexamination of the "Three Non-Nuclear Principles."
That is Japan's long-standing national policy of not possessing, producing, or permitting the introduction of nuclear weapons. 
Some experts also advocated for the acquisition of nuclear-powered submarines to secure an ultimate nuclear deterrent.
Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi, who has previously expressed openness to reviewing non-nuclear principles, did not directly mention possessing nuclear weapons during the meeting. 
However, Takaichi made it clear that Tokyo would significantly bolster its defense capabilities, stating that the revision of these documents is a crucial task that will "determine the fate of Japan."

#4
A special appellate panel at the Seoul High Court dedicated to insurrection-related cases, sentenced former President Yoon Suk Yeol to seven years for obstructing his own arrest and related charges on Wednesday afternoon.
This is more than the first ruling, which was five years but less than what prosecutors had appealed for, which was 10 years.
Yoon's defense team stated that they will be appealing.
The appellate ruling for Yoon, which began at 3 PM, was livestreamed, and the verdict was handed down at around 4 PM.

#5
Korea's small and medium-sized enterprises posted record exports in the first quarter, driven by the strong demand for cosmetics and semiconductors.
The Ministry of SMEs and Startups said on Wednesday that outbound shipments rose 9-point-1 percent year-on-year to 29-point-8 billion U.S. dollars, the highest ever for a first quarter.
Cosmetics exports led the gains, rising by over twenty percent to 2-point-18 billion dollars and setting a new quarterly record.
Semiconductor shipments also remained strong, surging by more than fifty percent to 1-point-13 billion dollars.

Moving to the weather forecast,
We’re continuing to see classic spring weather with big temperature swings.
It may feel a bit chilly in the mornings and evenings, but tomorrow, highs will climb to around 20 degrees — right near seasonal averages.
But with the large temperature swings, be sure to dress in layers.
Meanwhile, dry conditions are sticking around.

The current temperature are
14 degrees in Seoul,
14 degrees in Gwangju,
14 degrees in Busan,
And 10 degrees on Jejudo Island. 
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio