Welcome to Arirang News
This is Jin Myong
We start with the top headlines at this hour

1.
In a press briefing on Wednesday, the White House said reports that the U.S. formally requested a ceasefire extension with Iran are not true.

The White House spokeswoman Karoline Leavitt added that while discussions about a second round of talks are ongoing, no decisions have been finalized.

She did indicate if there is a second round of talks, those would likely be held in Pakistan, which she described as the "only mediator in this negotiation."

According to Iranian state media, Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi held a preliminary meeting with Pakistan’s Army Chief, Asim Munir, in Tehran on Wednesday.

It reports more extensive talks are scheduled for Thursday, to discuss the latest communications with the United States.

Despite Vice President JD Vance and Iranian officials both noting that significant differences remain, President Trump said in a recent Fox News interview that the conflict is quote, "very close to over."

 

2.

U.S. commanders are set to face scrutiny on Capitol Hill next week, over whether key military assets diverted from Korea have created gaps in deterrence against North Korea.

According to the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee, U.S. Forces Korea Commander General Xavier Brunson will testify on Tuesday alongside Indo-Pacific Command chief Admiral Samuel Paparo, as part of a fiscal planning review for 2027.

The hearing will examine the posture of U.S. Forces Korea and the regional Indo-Pacific Command.

On Wednesday, the House Armed Services Committee will hold a separate hearing on U.S. force posture and national security challenges in the Indo-Pacific.

Also expected to attend the House session is John Noh, Assistant Secretary of War for Indo-Pacific Security Affairs.
While the hearings are held annually, this year’s sessions come amid the ongoing U.S. war with Iran.

3.
Under heat and pressure, this eco-friendly alternative, made from starch and other plant-based materials, is shaped into plastic bags.

As naphtha supplies from the Middle East come under strain and prices soar, biodegradable bags are now gaining unprecedented attention.

Consumers are also responding positively due to the ease of use.
.

The war has sped up a move away from plastic, but with higher costs and added effort, sustainability remains a challenge.

What began as a crisis is now forcing a reconsideration of our dependence on petroleum-based plastics, and opening new opportunities in the eco-friendly sector.
 
4.
Meanwhile earlier today President Lee Jae Myung attended a memorial service to mark the 12th anniversary of the Sewol {세월} ferry disaster becoming the first sitting South Korean president to participate in the annual event
Speaking at the service in Ansan City Gyeonggi-do Province he linked the state's priority to the protection of its people and pledged to build a country that well serves this purpose.
Over 300 people mostly students from Danwon High School in Ansan City lost their lives when the ferry capsized off the country's southwestern coast on April 16th 2014.

5.

Despite various factors amid global uncertainties, between the months of January and March of 2026, South Korea saw a record number of tourists visiting the country, on the back of the power of K-culture.

According to the Culture Ministry on Thursday, foreign arrivals to Korea hit 4-point-7-6 million in the first quarter, a 23-percent increase compared to the same period last year.

Contributing to this jump was K-pop sensation BTS's comeback performance at Seoul's Gwanghwamun Square in March.

Moving to weather forecast,
Unlike today’s early summer-like heat, tomorrow will be somewhat cooler.
Rain will start in the southern regions tomorrow and continue into Saturday morning.

And after a short break, it will turn warm again.
Meanwhile, the air is still very dry.

Dry weather advisories have been issued across central areas and parts of Gyeongsangbuk-do Province, so please take extra care.

The current temperatures are
___ in Seoul
___ in Gwangju
___ in Busan
And ___ on Jejudo island.
You are listening to Arirang Radio.