Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
Voters in South Korea will have their first chance to cast their ballots this Friday, as early voting for the June 3rd local elections gets underway.
For two days — Friday and Saturday — polling stations will be open from six in the morning until six in the evening.
One of the more convenient aspects of early voting is that voters can cast their ballots at any of the 3,571 polling stations nationwide, regardless of where they are registered — a flexibility that isn't available on election day itself.
All that is required is a valid photo ID.
Eligible foreign residents can participate in the local elections.
Those aged eighteen or over who have held permanent residency for at least three years and are registered on their local government's foreign residents list are entitled to vote — though not in the parliamentary by-elections.
Thursday also marks the start of a polling blackout — meaning no new survey results can be published until polls close on election day.
The elections are the first nationwide vote since President Lee Jae Myung took office, and are being closely watched as a barometer of the political landscape.

#2
President Lee Jae Myung has called for a thorough investigation into the recent fatal overpass collapse and a poor construction of an underground transportation complex in the capital.
Speaking at a weekly meeting with his aides on Thursday, Lee pointed out cases where safety has been overlooked due to cost issues.
He urged the authorities to look into the incidents to find out whether they occurred due to similar reasons.
He noted the gravity of the matter and urged for the need to hold those responsible strictly to account.
This week, the collapse of the overpass in Seoul killed three people, while controversy has been recently raised over a report that found reinforcement bars were largely missing from the construction.

#3
South Korea is making a final push to secure a major Canadian submarine contract estimated to be worth up to 60 trillion won, or roughly 40 billion U.S. dollars.
Chief of Naval Operations {김경률} Kim Kyung-ryul and Defense Acquisition Program Administration Minister {이용철} Lee Yong-cheol attended CANSEC, Canada’s largest defense and security exhibition, on Thursday.
The visit to Ottawa comes ahead of Canada’s expected decision on a project to replace its aging submarine fleet with up to 12 conventionally powered submarines.
Kim met with key Canadian leadership, including the Secretary of State for Defense Procurement and the Navy Commander, to discuss maritime security cooperation.
Minister Lee outlined South Korea's proposal to local broadcaster CBC --- which includes guaranteed technology transfers, domestic supply chain integration, and long-term maintenance based in Canada.

#4
Tensions between the U.S. and Iran are escalating again near the Strait of Hormuz. 
Iran's foreign ministry spokesperson accused Washington of repeatedly violating the ceasefire agreed to on April 8.
He said U.S. actions in the Gulf, including what Tehran described as provocations against commercial vessels and strikes on Iranian territory, were "gross violations" of the ceasefire. 
Iran also warned it was ready to take all necessary measures under the UN Charter to defend its territory and sovereignty.
The U.S. military, however, argues that American forces shot down four Iranian suicide drones near the strait, after they allegedly posed a threat to commercial vessels and U.S. personnel.

#5
South Korean Defense Minister Ahn Gyu-back will travel to Singapore this week to attend the annual Asia Security Summit, from Friday through Sunday. 
According to the Ministry of National Defense on Thursday, 
Ahn plans to deliver a speech to the plenary session 
to introduce Korea's defense policy 
during the current increasingly volatile security landscape. 
Joining the summit will be his counterparts from key nations, 
including the United States, Japan, and other European and Indo-Pacific partners.
Vietnam's President To Lam is set to deliver the keynote speech 
on the first day of the forum on Friday. 
Meanwhile, the keynote address from U.S. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, 
Is set to be delivered the following day, 
with high scrutiny expected from Asian allies.

Moving to the weather forecast,
We’re expecting bright and sunny weather across much of the country tomorrow.
And with temperatures on the rise, it’ll feel a lot more like early summer for the next few days.
Strong winds have been sweeping across much of the country since this afternoon, with gusts reaching over 15 meters per second in many areas.

The current temperature are
20 degrees in Seoul,
19 degrees in Gwangju,
23 degrees in Busan,
And 18 degrees on Jejudo Island
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio