Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
The U.S. and Iran have reportedly reached a broad agreement aimed at easing tensions in the Middle East, although final approval from leaders on both sides is still pending and could take several more days.

The New York Times, citing a U.S. official, said on Sunday that the deal was expected to include reopening the Strait of Hormuz and Iran giving up its highly enriched uranium, with details still under negotiation.

Iran's Foreign Ministry spokesman Esmaeil Baghaei said some progress had been made in U.S.-Iran talks mediated by Pakistan on a wide range of issues, but stressed that a final agreement was not imminent.

Axios also reported that Iran's nuclear program would be discussed during an additional 60-day truce period expected to be included in a memorandum of understanding between the two sides.

 
While Iran's still reportedly reviewing the latest proposal, The Washington Post cited a diplomat who said Tehran would be required to restore shipping traffic in the Strait of Hormuz to prewar levels within 30 days after signing the MOU and reopening the waterway.

It would also have Iran, the U.S., and its allies declare an immediate end to military operations across all fronts, including Lebanon.

2.
Crude oil prices fell more than 5 percent amid expectations that the United States and Iran were nearing a peace deal.

West Texas Intermediate futures,... the benchmark for oil prices in North America,... fell 5-point-5-3 percent to around 91-point-2-5 U.S. dollars per barrel on Sunday local time, while Brent futures, the global benchmark for crude oil, also dropped 5-point-3-8 percent to 97-point-9-7 dollars during intraday trading.

The decline came after U.S. President Donald Trump said on Saturday that a deal aimed at resuming peace negotiations between Washington and Tehran will soon be announced.
 
3.
Foreign Minister Cho Hyun and his Croatian counterpart, Gordan Grlic Radman, met in Seoul on Monday to discuss ways to expand bilateral cooperation in the weapons and energy sectors.

Cho welcomed Radman's visit, which marked the first trip to South Korea by Croatia's top diplomat in eight years, and called for enhancing their future-oriented cooperation in areas ranging from the arms industry to batteries, according to the ministry.

In response, Radman noted that practical cooperation between the two countries is expanding, citing bilateral memorandums of understanding the countries signed recently on defense and economy, as well as science and technology.

They also agreed to accelerate discussions on a working holiday program and continue educational and research exchanges between their foreign ministries.
 
4.
South Korea’s benchmark KOSPI continued its upward momentum, with average daily transactions topping 40 trillion won for the first time ever.

According to the Korea Exchange on Monday, the average daily trading value on the KOSPI stood at around 48 trillion won,... or roughly 31-point-7 billion dollars from the start of this month through May 22nd.

The surge was largely driven by robust buying interest in major semiconductor stocks such as Samsung Electronics and SK hynix, with the two chip giants accounting for 43 percent of the KOSPI’s total daily trading volume during the first 22 days of this month.
 
5.
North Korea is set to convene a plenary meeting of the Workers’ Party of Korea, the regime's "ruling" party, next month.

According to the state-run Korean Central News Agency on Monday, North Korea will convene a second plenary meeting in late June as a follow-up to wrapping up the regime's biggest political event held in February,... the ninth key party congress to conduct a mid-year review of the party and state policies for 2026, and discuss key agenda items for the second half of the year.

North Korea has recently regularly convened plenary meetings in late June and December, alongside additional sessions to discuss urgent issues.

While the upcoming meeting is largely seen as a routine policy gathering, attention is also focused on whether Pyongyang will unveil major decisions regarding inter-Korean and U.S. relations.
 
Moving to weather forecast,
Unlike summer-like heat today, conditions are expected to change dramatically tomorrow.

A large amount of moisture moving in from the southwest will bring rain beginning tonight to Jejudo island and the Jeollanam-do province, before spreading to most parts of the country by tomorrow afternoon.

More than 100 millimeters of rain are expected in parts of Jeollanam-do, Gyeongsangnam-do, and Jeju, with some areas seeing intense downpours of 20 to 50 millimeters per hour.
Meanwhile, central regions, along with Jeollabuk-do and Gyeongsangbuk-do, are forecast to receive between 20 and 80 millimeters of rain.

Morning temperatures tomorrow will be slightly higher than today, with Seoul starting at 21 degrees Celsius and Busan at 19 degrees.
59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Pyeongchang
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’