Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
As tensions in the Middle East enter their second week following the U.S. military strikes on Iran, President Lee Jae Myung told his Cabinet that their role is more critical than ever.
Presiding over a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday, Lee said stabilizing prices is the government's most urgent task, as uncertainty grows in energy supplies, logistics, and financial markets.

The government plans to introduce a temporary price ceiling on petroleum products within the week.
President Lee instructed the Finance Minister to ensure the measure minimizes the burden on customers.

Lee proposed imposing a price cap during last week's extraordinary Cabinet meeting.
He warned of possible price gouging by oil refiners, citing rising fuel prices despite South Korea holding petroleum reserves equivalent to seven months of supply.
The Fair Trade Commission has launched an investigation into possible collusion among refiners.

The President even mentioned preparing a supplementary budget to ease the burden on consumers if the Middle East situation drags on.
2.
President Lee Jae Myung says an "all-in" approach has now become an obstacle that hinders growth, as he called for corporate co-prosperity.

Speaking at a meeting with private firms at the Blue House on Tuesday, he said fostering an environment where large conglomerates cooperate with smaller firms was crucial for sustainable growth.
Lee noted the case of Hanwha Ocean eliminating discrimination between its employees and subcontracted workers for equal performance-based bonuses,... and said he hoped to see more of such cases in Korean society.
Dozens of companies joined the meeting, including Hanwha Ocean, Samsung Electronics and SK.

 
3.
South Korea's benchmark KOSPI closed at 5,532.59 on Tuesday, up 5.35 percent from the day before, showing heavy swings that even triggered a buy-side sidecar in early trading.

This is significant as it followed a steep decline that triggered a circuit breaker just the day before.
The gains came amid remarks from U.S. President Donald Trump, hinting that the conflict between the United States and Iran was "very complete."

Since Operation Epic Fury began early this month, the benchmark KOSPI has shown extreme fluctuations, triggering both sell-side and buy-side sidecars nearly every trading day.

Meanwhile, the Korean won is also fluctuating as it recovered on Tuesday after the exchange rate touched 1,500 won against the dollar at one point during the recent turmoil. 

With the same reasoning behind the KOSPI's moves, the won closed at 1,469.3 won per dollar, down 26.2 won from the day before.
 
4.
Kim Yo-jong, the sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un and a department director of the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea, warned on Tuesday about the joint military drills between South Korea and the U.S.

In a statement carried by the Korean Central News Agency, she said hostile forces’ military demonstrations "near" the regime’s sovereign and security areas could lead to “unimaginably terrible consequences.”

Calling the drills “a provocative and aggressive war rehearsal,” Kim said that regardless of any justification or adjustments, the exercise remains a large-scale, high-intensity war drill.

Meanwhile, 
Train services between North Korea and China will resume on Thursday this week, after being suspended for some six years.

According to the Japanese outlet Kyodo NEws, the passenger train service had been halted upon the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, and even after the virus subsided, North Korea continued to refuse Chinese visitors, and only tourists from Russia were able to visit.

 
5.
K-pop sensation BTS will expand its upcoming comeback concert scheduled for March 21st, by increasing the total audience capacity to around 22-thousand people.

According to the group’s agency BigHit Music on Tuesday, additional standing areas will be added near Gwanghwamun Square, where fans can watch the performance on large LED screens.
Tickets can be booked from Thursday at 8 PM through the online platform NOL Ticket.

Ahead of the performance, BTS will release its fifth studio album “Arirang” and open a special pop-up store in Seoul featuring merchandise inspired by traditional Korean aesthetics.
The pop-up will run at Shinsegae Department Store’s main branch and HYBE headquarters from March 20th until April.
 
Moving to weather forecast,
Dust that flowed in from overseas yesterday, combined with locally generated pollution, has been lingering due to stagnant air. Ultra-fine dust levels stayed at “bad” levels across most regions today, and the haze could linger into tomorrow. 

Meanwhile, the Gyeongsang-do region is having very dry conditions. Dry weather advisories have been issued for parts of the region, including Daegu and Busan.

Temperatures will go up higher as the week goes on, with wide daily temperature swings.

59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Gwangju.
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’