Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
U.S. President Donald Trump arrived in China for the highly anticipated summit with Chinese President Xi Jinping.
Against this backdrop, President Lee Jae Myung met with senior officials from both countries at the Blue House.
Lee held talks with U.S. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent, marking their second meeting following their first in New York last September. 
As widely expected, Seoul's pledged 3-hundred-50-billion-dollar investment package in exchange for lower U.S. tariffs was among the key issues discussed.
The two sides also agreed on the need to strengthen cooperation in critical minerals supply chains and the foreign exchange market, at a time of growing global uncertainties.
Just before that, President Lee met with Chinese Vice Premier He Lifeng. 
Lee's back-to-back meetings came ahead of trade talks between He and Bessent aimed at coordinating key issues before the Trump-Xi summit in Beijing.
With Seoul maintaining its alliance with Washington while also preserving its strategic cooperative partnership with Beijing, Wednesday's meetings could be viewed as Korea's delicate balancing act between the world's two largest powers.

#2
National Security Advisor Wi Sung-lac says there's no conclusive evidence 
that drones struck the Korean-operated HMM Namu vessel in the Strait of Hormuz last week.
Speaking at a conference hosted by the Korea News Editors' Association on Wednesday, Wi said further investigation and analysis are needed before making a final determination. 
He added that authorities are considering multiple possibilities regarding the unidentified flying objects, including missiles.
This comes after the UAE's foreign ministry on Monday condemned the incident as a "terrorist drone attack."

#3
South Korea’s Defense Minister Ahn Gyu-back said 
Seoul is reviewing 'phased' contributions to U.S.-led efforts 
aimed at restoring safe passage through the Strait of Hormuz.
Speaking to reporters in Washington on Tuesday, local time, 
Ahn said Seoul conveyed to the United States that it would participate “as a responsible member of the international community” 
and review ways to contribute in stages, during talks with U.S. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth at the Pentagon earlier this week.
According to Ahn, possible forms of support could include expressions of political backing, personnel dispatches, intelligence sharing, 
and military asset assistance.
The minister stressed that any decision would be made in accordance with both international and domestic legal procedures, adding that no detailed discussions were held regarding direct South Korean military involvement.

#4
Hitting the road on Wednesday to the country's southeastern city of Ulsan, President Lee Jae Myung toured a shipyard where LNG carriers are built.
Meeting with shipbuilders, he noted growing recognition of South Korea's shipbuilding industry on the global stage.
He was looking for what the government can do to help, 
noting a great discrepancy during times of a boom and recession, 
which also affects the livelihoods of workers in the field.
The president called for creating a fair compensation system.
High on the agenda was raising its competitiveness amid a fierce global race.
After the session, President Lee toured an exhibition booth 
showcasing robots and cutting-edge technologies applied in the shipbuilding sector.

#5
The South Korean economy is projected to expand 2-point-5 percent in 2026, up from the previous forecast of 1-point-9 percent projected in February by the Korea Development Institute.
On Wednesday, the state-run think tank released its May economic trends report, in which it evaluated that the Korean economy has indeed been showing a recovery trend due to exports growing at a high rate, led by semiconductors. 
Chip exports spiked 173-point-5 percent year-on-year, marking the highest-ever figure for any April.
In April, consumer prices rose by 2-point-6 percent from a year earlier, higher than in March, which recorded a 2-point-2 percent increase, and the fastest pace in 21 months, despite government measures of oil price capping policies and expanded fuel tax cuts.

Moving to the weather forecast,
Tomorrow, temperatures will climb even higher. 
Seoul is expected to reach 31 degrees Celsius, bringing unusually hot conditions for this time of year.
However, inland areas will see large day-to-night temperature swings.
Meanwhile, brief showers are possible over the mountainous areas of Gangwon State through tonight, with around 5 millimeters of rain expected.

The current temperature are
20 degrees in Seoul,
18 degrees in Gwangju,
17 degrees in Busan,
And 13 degrees on Jejudo Island.
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio