Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
President Donald Trump has pushed the ceasefire deadline with Iran to Wednesday evening Washington time, after earlier expectations it would expire Tuesday -- leading to some international confusion over the timeline.
Some experts view that the U.S. administration interpreted the two-week timeframe flexibly to allow more time for negotiations.

As the new deadline nears, Vice President JD Vance and a delegation of U.S. officials are expected to head to Islamabad for a potential second round of talks.
However, Trump gave conflicting statements on Vance’s departure time, claiming he had already left before later clarifying he would depart on Tuesday.
Amidst this uncertainty, Tehran continues to publicly deny plans to resume talks.
 
2.
South Korea's President Lee Jae Myung and his Indian counterpart Modi stressed the importance of bilateral cooperation during these turbulent times.
The leaders also exchanged views on regional and global peace amid the current conflict in the Middle East.

Monday's summit yielded key deliverables, such as strengthening cooperation on a stable supply of energy resources and naphtha.
The leaders agreed to create the "Korea-India Industrial Cooperation Committee" for cooperation on strategic sectors,... such as critical minerals and nuclear energy.

Also, the two countries plan to upgrade their bilateral economic agreement called "CEPA"... and double their annual trade volume to 50-billion U.S. dollars by 2030.
A "Mumbai Korea Center" will be established to foster cultural exchanges. 

Meanwhile,
Culture Minister Chae Hwi-young met... with heavyweights in India's film industry in New Delhi on Tuesday local time.

The meeting included a signing ceremony for a joint film project... tentatively titled.. AMOR"... which is scheduled to start shooting in September.
3.
The South Korean stock market showed strong momentum on Tuesday as investor optimism over potential diplomatic breakthroughs outweighed geopolitical risks in the Middle East.

As of April 21st, the index opened 1-point-34 percent higher from the previous session and surpassed 6-thousand-3-hundred-55 within about ten minutes.

Furthermore, KOSPI hit a new historic high on the same day, reaching its peak at 6-thousand-3-hundred-88-point-4-7, gaining 169-point-3-8 points or 2-point-7-2 percent.
 
4.
South Korea is set to begin providing money from its "high-oil-price damage relief fund" on April 27.

According to a Ministry of the Interior and Safety meeting on Tuesday, vulnerable groups, including low-income households and single-parent families, will be prioritized for the relief funding from April 27 to May 8.

The second phase, covering 70 percent of eligible recipients, which is about 35.8 million people, is scheduled to begin on May 18 and run through July 3.

Emphasizing the urgency, Prime Minister Kim Min-seok said, "speed is of the essence" for the war-related supplementary budget.

Kim urged local authorities to expedite the execution of twenty major projects, including the relief funding, to provide timely assistance to the public.

 
5.

South Korea’s newly appointed Bank of Korea Governor... {신현송} Shin Hyun-song says the central bank will implement a flexible monetary policy to combat growing economic uncertainties.

In his inaugural address on Tuesday, the new governor emphasized that the domestic economy faces dual pressures of inflation and slowing growth, exacerbated by the Middle East conflict and volatile global oil prices.

He outlined four core objectives for his four-year term: stabilizing prices and financial markets, expanding financial monitoring into non-bank sectors, internationalizing the Korean won through a 24-hour foreign exchange market, and taking an active role in national structural reforms.

The governor added that the central bank will also push forward with digital currency initiatives, including Project Hangang, to secure a stable next-generation payment infrastructure.
 
Moving to weather forecast,
Dust from the Gobi Desert and Inner Mongolia is really hurting air quality right now.
This dust is likely to stick around through tomorrow, so you’ll want to take some precautions.
Make sure to wear a mask, and try to avoid going outside as much as possible.
Because of the lingering dust, air quality will remain poor across the country.
Fine dust levels could briefly spike to 'very bad' in Busan, Ulsan, and Gyeongsangnam-do Province tomorrow morning.

Some 20 to 60 millimeters of rain is expected to fall on Jeju Island, while Jeollanam-do and Gyeongsangnam-do Provinces will also see showers.

59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Pyeongchang
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’