Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Cha Yunkyung.
And we start with our top headlines at this hour.

1. 
It was a warm welcome for the South Korean president on his first state visit to Singapore.

Presidents Lee Jae Myung and Tharman Shanmugaratnam together named an orchid, -- a unique Singaporean ceremonial event for foreign leaders, representing a stronger friendship.

Bolstering the bilateral strategic partnership was a focal point of Monday's summit with Prime Minister Lawrence Wong, the Singaporean head of government.

The talks yielded key deliverables,... including MOUs on trade, science, AI and small modular reactors.

They also agreed to strengthen their joint efforts to tackle transnational online scams... and bolster their partnership in investment, defense industry and culture.
Also addressed was the conflict in the Middle East and its possible impact on global security and energy.

 
2. 
President Lee Jae Myung has met Koreans in Singapore and vowed to actively listen to their opinions and support them in any difficulties they are facing.

As his trip on Sunday coincided with the 107th anniversary of the March 1st Independence movement, President Lee noted the dedication and efforts by the Korean community in Singapore for independence against Japan's colonialism.

In particular, he appreciated autonomy and openness of the Korean community in Singapore, taking into account how it has been formed and operated.

Lee added that he has instructed the foreign ministry to collect opinions from each and every one of the 7-million Koreans living overseas.

 
3. Moving on,
President Lee Jae Myung has nominated ruling Democratic Party lawmaker Park Hong-keun to head the Ministry of Planning and Budget.
The Blue House says Park was selected for his expertise in fiscal policy.

The four-time lawmaker currently serves on the National Assembly's Finance and Economic Planning Committee and previously chaired the parliamentary Special Committee on Budget and Accounts.

The ministerial post has been vacant since President Lee withdrew his earlier nominee, Lee Hye-hoon, following allegations related to real estate fraud and workplace bullying.

Also on Monday, the president nominated Hwang Jong-woo, a veteran official at the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries, to serve as its next minister.

Minister nominees must undergo confirmation hearings at the parliament, though their appointments will be decided by the president.

 
4. Switching gears, 

U.S. President Donald Trump has said that combat operations in Iran were continuing in full force,... and that they would carry on until all of Washington's objectives are achieved.
He posted a six-minute video on Truth Social on Sunday, U.S. local time,... where he said quote, the "largest, most complex, and most overwhelming military offensives,..." Operation Epic Fury has been launched for over the past 36 hours.
Trump also confirmed Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's death,... and urged the Iranian military to lay down their weapons,... and citizens to take action.

Trump expressed his condolences for the three U.S. soldiers killed during the operations,... and added there could likely be more. 

Trump also said during an interview with the Atlantic magazine on Sunday that Iran's new leadership have agreed to talks,... and he agreed to do so too.
He also told Fox News,... that 48 leaders have been killed in the strikes and told CNBC that U.S. military operations in Iran are “ahead of schedule”.

5. Lastly,

With U.S. military strikes on Iran showing no signs of lessening,... 
oil prices have surged,... while U.S. shares have dropped.

Brent crude briefly was traded above 80 U.S. dollars a barrel,... in the first minutes of open trading,... while the US benchmark West Texas Intermediate climbed over 70 U.S. dollars.

This,... as confrontation could disrupt supplies,... especially from traffic through the Strait of Hormuz, that accounts for around 20-percent of world’s oil shipments.

The U.S. stock index futures dropped by around one-percent.

Investors,... in contrast are flocking to safe-have assets,... making gold and silver futures rally and the U.S. dollar strengthen.

Moving to weather forecast,
Tuesday will be mostly cloudy nationwide, but skies will gradually clear from the evening in the Seoul metropolitan area, the Chungcheong-do, Jeolla-do, and Gyeongsang-do Provinces.
Rain or snow is expected across the country until tomorrow evening.
In particular, a heavy snow advisory is in effect for the mountainous regions of Gangwon State, where wet and heavy snow will fall.
Temperatures will remain above the seasonal average for the time being.
Fine dust levels will be “Good” nationwide.

The current temperatures are: 
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Gwangju
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island.

You’re listening to Arirang Radio