Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
Pakistan’s capital, Islamabad, prepares to host critical talks between the United States and Iran.
According to foreign media correspondents in the region, security has been tightened across the city.
The main road leading to Islamabad’s heavily fortified Red Zone, a home to key government buildings and diplomatic missions, has been blocked, with military personnel deployed and checkpoints set up throughout the area.
The goal is to find a diplomatic middle ground to a war that has claimed thousands of lives and disrupted vital waterways in the Strait of Hormuz.
The White House has confirmed that a U.S. delegation, led by Vice President J.D. Vance alongside special envoys Jared Kushner and Steve Witkoff, is scheduled to arrive on Friday evening.

#2
National Security Advisor Wi Sung-lac says the passage of ships is still not guaranteed in the Strait of Hormuz despite the ceasefire between the U.S. and Iran.
Speaking to reporters on Friday, Wi said the number of ships that have passed through the strait does not seem to have significantly increased following the agreed-upon two-week truce compared to before the war.
He said South Korea is continuing its communication with relevant countries to secure safe and swift passage of all ships currently held back in the Persian Gulf, including 26 Korean vessels.
The chief adviser added that supply chain uncertainties would last for a while, vowing to continue looking for alternative supplies of oil and naphtha.

#3
Seoul on Thursday protested Tokyo's latest claim that the Korean islets of Dokdo are Japanese territory.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs said Kim Sang-hoon, Director-General for Asian and Pacific Affairs, summoned the Japanese Embassy's Deputy Chief of Mission Hirotaka Matsuo to convey Seoul’s protest.
As he entered the building, Matsuo did not respond to reporters’ questions, including why Japan claims Dokdo as its territory while describing South Korea as an important neighbour in the Diplomatic Bluebook, and whether Tokyo intends to withdraw the claim.
Japan’s 2026 Diplomatic Bluebook, released on Friday, repeated its unfounded claim that Dokdo is "an inherent part of Japan’s territory, both in light of historical facts and under international law.”
Spokesperson Park Il said unjust claims by Japan have no effect whatsoever on Korea’s sovereignty over Dokdo, and that Seoul will respond firmly to any provocations by Japan regarding the islets.

#4
Seoul and Washington should reinforce dialogue and coordination, 
as the allies navigate a time of uncertainty.
That's according to former U.S. ambassador to South Korea Kathleen Stephens, speaking to Arirang News.
As unease grows among U.S. allies 
over the reliability of Washington’s security commitments under President Donald Trump, 
Stephens acknowledges that such issues should be tackled 
through much-needed dialogue and consultations.
For Seoul, the concern has been over the notion of strategic flexibility – 
the ability for U.S. Forces Korea to be redeployed in other contingencies – 
and extended deterrence – 
America's nuclear umbrella against North Korea's security threats.

#5
South Korea on Friday resumed its tourist rail service to and from the country's northernmost Dorasan Station, close to the DMZ, after a suspension of around six and a half years.
A symbol of inter-Korean cooperation, the station was established at a summit in 2000 following an agreement to connect railways.
Freight trains once passed through Dorasan, transporting goods to and from the Kaesong Industrial Complex until operations halted in 2016 amid rising tensions.
After serving as a tourist destination, it closed in late 2019 due to COVID-19, until this Friday marked the full resumption of regular tourist rail service.

Moving to the weather forecast,
We’re in for a mild and pleasant weekend.
On Sunday, daytime temperatures will climb quite a bit with Seoul reaching up to 23 degrees Celsius.
However, it could feel a bit chilly in the early mornings and evenings with a big day-to-night temperature difference of around 15 degrees, so you might want to dress in layers.
On Sunday, rain will begin on Jejudo Island and in the southern parts of Jeollanam-do Province from late afternoon.

The current temperature are
9 Degrees in Seoul
9 Degrees in Gwangju
16 Degrees in Busan
And 10 Degrees on Jejudo island 
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio