vWelcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
President Lee Jae Myung held summit talks with Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos Jr. on Tuesday to discuss ways to strengthen economic cooperation in areas including artificial intelligence, the defense industry and infrastructure.

Lee underscored the importance of expanding bilateral ties beyond trade and investment into promising new sectors and stepping up cooperation amid a shifting international order during the talks held in Manila amid the widening conflict in the Middle East.
Lee expressed hope to build on the momentum of closer bilateral ties to contribute to South Korea's deepening relations with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, a major trading partner.

Marcos highlighted cooperation on large-scale infrastructure projects and expressed hope for South Korea's prompt participation in the Panay-Guimaras-Negros bridge project, which will connect the three central Philippine islands of Panay, Guimaras and Negros.

The Philippine president also noted deepening collaboration in maritime security and the defense industry based on "mutual trust" amid the changing international order, expressing hope to advance strategic cooperation.
2.
South Korea is prioritizing the safety of its nationals as Middle East tensions escalate,... with the government convening its third emergency inter-ministerial meeting in four days.

Prime Minister Kim Min-seok led Tuesday's session,... instructing the Foreign and Defense Ministries to ensure the safety of Korean nationals and deployed troops, provide guidance to short-term visitors seeking to return home, and prepare transportation plans upon evacuating.

A number of South Korean nationals in Iran are already on their way out of the country, according to the Foreign Ministry on Tuesday.

For security reasons, the ministry is not disclosing the exact number of evacuees, nor details such as timing or routes out of Iran.
The defence ministry said Tuesday it is preparing to deploy military assets if needed to support the safe evacuation of Korean nationals, although no formal request for support has been made so far.

The government is also reportedly prepared to provide evacuation support, if necessary, to South Korean nationals residing in Israel.
On Tuesday, a lawmaker on the foreign affairs committee revealed that around 21,000 South Korean nationals are currently in 13 Middle Eastern countries.

The Prime Minister on Tuesday evening had a conference call with Korean diplomats in the region to discuss measures going forward.
The government is also stepping up financial market monitoring and energy supply checks,... while warning it will take strict action against the spread of fake news that could fuel public anxiety.

3.
Financial authorities here... including the Bank of Korea... are operating a 24-hour monitoring system in light of the volatile situation in the Middle East... and have shared related contingency plans.
A government fund of 13-point-3 trillion won... or some nine billion U.S. dollars has been set aside to support companies affected by the latest conflict there.
The Financial Services Commission has also pledged to proactively... deploy its existing 100 trillion won market stabilization fund... if necessary.

Meanwhile... 
A "Black Tuesday" in Korea was marked by heavy foreign selling, driven by investor jitters over escalating risks in the Middle East.

According to the Korea Exchange on Tuesday, the benchmark KOSPI ended at around 5-thousand-7-hundred-91, dropping over seven percent from the previous session, its biggest fall ever.
It's the first time in four trading days that the KOSPI has fallen below the six thousand mark.
4.
Many people's eyes were on potential talks between the U.S. and North Korea,... with U.S. President Donald Trump slated to visit Beijing from March 31st to April 2nd,... to hold talks with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping.

However according to experts, with U.S.-Israeli operations killing Iran's supreme leader, the chances have become slim.

Given that it is highly unlikely the U.S. will recognize North Korea as a nuclear state,... which is the regime's precondition for talks,... the possibility of any dialogue is low.

Another expert added that Washington's bold strikes against Iran would have rather driven Kim to boost the North's development of its nuclear forces.

With some arguing that Iran’s case could paradoxically push Kim toward dialogue to manage tensions, attention is focused on what kind of strategic decision he will make, and when that will come.
 
Moving to weather forecast,
It's Jeongwol Daeboreum today when we can see the first full moon of the lunar year. For the first time in 36 years, a total lunar eclipse coincides with the holiday. Clouds are expected to thin out this evening in most regions, giving higher chance to see the full moon.

Tomorrow we are waking up to another chilly morning, Seoul and Daegu at 1 degree, Gwangju at 2 degrees under sunnier skies. 

Highs will get up to 11 degrees in Seoul, most major cities will make it to 13 degrees under brighter skies with decent air quality. 

Typical early spring weather conditions this week with nationwide rain and snow in the forecast on Friday. 

59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Gwangju.
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’