Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
U.S. President Donald Trump met with Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing on Thursday for a high-stakes summit.
Xi personally welcomed Trump outside Beijing's Great Hall of the People.

They exchanged a handshake,... with Trump briefly patting Xi on the arm before walking together past an honor guard and cheering children.

The two-day trip marks Trump's first visit to China since 2017, and his first in-person meeting with Xi since their summit in Busan last year.

The two sides held expanded talks with senior delegates from both countries,... while Xi also met with U.S. business leaders accompanying Trump's delegation.
Before their closed-door summit, both leaders made opening remarks.
Xi expressed a wish for China and the U.S. to be "partners not rivals," while Trump followed by calling his counterpart a "great leader."

The bilateral talks between the two leaders lasted about two hours, which is double the duration originally scheduled.
Following the summit, the two leaders toured the Temple of Heaven together,... one of the city's major tourist attractions.

The two leaders are expected to continue discussions on trade and business ties, as well as major geopolitical issues, including the war in Iran, and Washington’s relationship with Taiwan.

2.
Foreign Minister Cho Hyun has condemned attacks on civilian vessels including the South Korean-operated HMM Namu... asserting that such assaults cannot be justified nor tolerated.

Addressing members of the media on this Thursday... he spoke of Seoul's intentions to maintain close coordination with its global partners to ensure freedom of navigation and the safety of Korean ships and crew in the waters of the Middle East.

With regard to the attack on the HMM Namu cargo carrier in the Strait of Hormuz earlier this month that caused an explosion and fire... authorities here have yet to confirm the source of the strike... as investigation continues.

According to the Defense Ministry, the dispatched team includes... some ten officials from relevant government agencies with their focus on forensic examination including damage assessment of the hull.

Meanwhile... another group of experts here in Korea is currently... investigating debris recovered from the projectile that hit the container ship.

3.
According to the Ministry of Science and ICT on Thursday, outbound shipments of ICT products reached 42.71 billion U.S. dollars in April.
That is a 125.9 percent surge from the same month last year.

Imports rose 33.3 percent on-year to 16.16 billion dollars, resulting in a trade surplus of 26.55 billion dollars, marking the third consecutive month the surplus has exceeded the 20-billion-dollar level.
The ICT sector now accounts for 49.7 percent of the country's total export volume.

The record performance was led by the semiconductor sector, which skyrocketed 173.3 percent on-year to 31.91 billion dollars.
This growth is directly attributed to a continued shortage of memory chips and rising fixed prices stemming from expanded global investments in AI servers.

Meanwhile,
Korea's fiscal balance improved in the first quarter of 2026 on year... posting the smallest deficit for the same period in six years.

According to the Budget Ministry on this Thursday... the deficit stood at 39-point-6 trillion won as of March.

4.
President Lee Jae Myung has called... for the global expansion... of Korea's Saemaul Undong Movement.

The call came on this Thursday during his visit to the Korea Saemaul Undong Center... a non-profit organization... that oversees... development projects both at home and abroad.

Launched in 1970, the movement sought to modernize rural parts of the country.
The government provided training and materials while local residents took up labor to build infrastructure... such as roads and bridges.

The movement gained international recognition as a successful model for sustainable development... with its archives added to UNESCO's Memory of the World Register in 2013.
 
5. 
BTS is set to perform at the 2026 FIFA World Cup final halftime show, alongside global pop stars Madonna and Shakira.

According to FIFA, BTS will co-headline the first-ever World Cup final halftime show, set to take place at MetLife Stadium in New Jersey on July 19th.

Curated by Coldplay frontman Chris Martin and advocacy organization Global Citizen, the halftime show aims to support the FIFA Global Citizen Education Fund in expanding access to education and sports opportunities for children around the world.
BTS said in a statement released by its agency, BigHit Music, that "It will be a great honor to stand on such a meaningful stage where the whole world comes together."

 
Moving to weather forecast,
The unseasonable heat will continue tomorrow.
But with large day-to-night temperature swings of around 15 degrees Celsius, it’s a good idea to keep a light jacket handy.
This unusually warm weather is expected to last into early next week.

Especially in the western regions, daytime highs will reach near 30 degrees. Still, the air remains fairly dry so that it won’t feel as muggy as typical summer weather.

Skies will be mostly clear across the country tomorrow, with UV levels reaching "very high" levels.
 
59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Pyeongchang
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’