Welcome to Arirang News This is Park Kee hoon 
And we start with the top headlines at this hour.
1. 
President Lee Jae Myung on Thursday asked the National Assembly to swiftly pass a supplementary budget to cope with the economic fallout from the war in the Middle East, stressing that extraordinary measures are needed to address the crisis.
In a budget speech to the National Assembly, Lee outlined the 26.2 trillion-won, roughly 17 billion US dollars, extra budget, describing the situation as an "unexpected, multifaceted" crisis as the U.S. war on Iran enters its second month.
The extra budget focuses on easing the burden on consumers and businesses affected by rising oil prices, with more than 10 trillion won allocated for this. A key measure is direct cash support for some 36 million people, the bottom 70-percent of income earners.
The National Assembly is set to review the budget next week before putting it to a vote at a plenary session. The ruling and opposition parties previously agreed to pass it by next Friday.
2.
Fuel prices in South Korea have been steadily rising over the past week.
The nationwide average for gasoline on Thursday is 1,920 won per liter,
an increase of more than 5 percent compared to a week ago.
In Seoul, prices are even higher, at 1,964 won per liter on average.
Meanwhile, the government announced Wednesday 
that it would upgrade the energy security alert for crude oil 
to the second-highest level, starting from Thursday.
The system has four levels based on the severity of the crisis 
and its impact on daily life and the economy.
Since the onset of the Middle East conflict, the alert has been raised 
in stages, roughly every two weeks.

3.
In response to U.S. President Donald Trump's speech on Iran, 
the Blue House says South Korea hopes the situation in the Middle East 
will move swiftly toward peace and stability.
In a written briefing on Thursday, Senior Blue House Spokesperson 
Kang Yu-jung added that the government is closely 
monitoring developments involving countries related to the conflict.
Kang also said that Seoul will take proactive steps to ensure the safety of Korean nationals in the region and cooperate with the international community to restore "free maritime transport routes."

4.
President Lee Jae Myung has exchanged views on the Korean Peninsula 
as well as the Middle East situation during talks with U.S. lawmakers.
On Thursday, he hosted a four-member bipartisan Senate delegation, 
led by Senator Jeanne Shaheen from New Hampshire.
The South Korean president highlighted the country's increasing spending for its own defense and the need to take back wartime operational control from Washington to Seoul.
He also touched upon the importance of talks between North Korea 
and the U.S., revisiting his earlier suggestion that U.S. President
 Donald Trump take on the role of a "peacemaker" 
while he plays as a "pacemaker."
Earlier this week, President Lee also met a six-member U.S. delegation consisting of members from the House of Representatives.

5.
Dashed hopes for a swift end to the war after Trump's address 
sent South Korea's benchmark KOSPI tumbling more than 4 percent 
on Thursday, erasing over half of the previous day’s gains.
The KOSPI closed at 5-thousand-2-hundred-34, down 4-point-47 percent.
Foreigners and institutions drove the decline, 
while retail investors bought into the dip.
The Korean won weakened sharply, with the exchange rate for 
one U.S. dollar jumping over 18 won to close at 
1-thousand-5-hundred-19-point-7 won.
WTI crude oil surged more than 6 percent in one session, 
breaking above 106 dollars per barrel.