Welcome to Arirang News This is Park Kee hoon 
And we start with the top headlines at this hour.
1. 
The United States and Iran have both received a framework 
for a possible ceasefire agreement, according to Reuters, 
raising hopes for a pause in hostilities.
The proposal outlines a two-stage plan, starting with an immediate ceasefire, followed by a comprehensive agreement to be finalized within 
15 to 20 days, reportedly pushed by Pakistan.
Pakistan’s army chief has been mediating through the night, 
directly contacting U.S. Vice President J.D. Vance, 
Special Envoy Steve Witkoff, and Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi.
However, when approached, Pakistan provided no comment.
Iran has rejected the proposal, with an official telling Reuters on Monday that Tehran will not reopen the critical Strait of Hormuz in exchange 
for a merely "temporary" ceasefire.
The official stressed that Iran completely rejects being pressured by deadlines, claiming Washington lacks the genuine readiness 
for a permanent end to the war.

2.
With the economic fallout from the Middle East conflict now a matter of how long, rather than hypothetical, President Lee Jae Myung says South Korea must move quickly to overhaul its vulnerable economic structure.
Presiding over a Cabinet-slash-emergency economic meeting at the Blue House on Monday, Lee urged his Cabinet to, number one, diversify energy supply routes and, number two, reduce the country's heavy dependence on fossil fuels.
The immediate concern is crude oil.
Around two-thirds of South Korea's crude oil imports pass through the Strait of Hormuz, which Iran has closed to most commercial shipping.
An alternative being considered is Saudi Arabia's Port of Yanbu on the Red Sea coast, which has a maximum export capacity of about 5 million barrels of crude oil per day.
The government says it will resume Red Sea transits by oil tankers that meet "certain conditions," with the foreign minister saying the likelihood of the route being completely blocked or directly targeted remains low.

3.
Speaking after a high-level policy consultation at the National Assembly on Monday, ruling party lawmaker Ahn Do-geol said Seoul is engaged in active diplomatic negotiations with key energy producers, including Saudi Arabia, Oman and Algeria, with special envoys led by the foreign ministry among the options under consideration.
The government is also weighing up plans to reroute South Korean-flagged tankers through the Red Sea, with up to five vessels potentially directed to Saudi Arabia's port of Yanbu.
To address immediate supply concerns, authorities are looking to release strategic petroleum reserves, with state-held oil to be supplied first to domestic refiners and later swapped out once new imports arrive.
Private refiners are also being supported in sourcing additional supplies from third countries.

4.
North Korea seems to be accelerating efforts to make regime leader 
Kim Jong-un's daughter Kim Ju-ae his successor, 
according to the National Intelligence Service on Monday.
During a closed briefing to the National Assembly Intelligence Committee, the NIS said Ju-ae has recently made appearances in defense-related areas, such as driving a new battle tank with her father.
This is seen as paying homage to Kim Jong-un during his own successor period, and is aimed at easing doubts about a female successor 
while strengthening the succession narrative.

5.
The Cabinet has approved a revised law mandating Labor Day 
as an official public holiday for all workers.
Since its establishment more than 60 years ago, the day was designated 
as a paid holiday in 1994 for most workers.
Certain types of workers had not been ensured a paid day off, 
including public officials, teachers, and delivery workers.
With the change of law, all workers in South Korea will be ensured 
a paid holiday on May 1st, starting this year.
The National Assembly passed the revision last week.