Welcome to Arirang News this is Jin Myong
And we start with our top headlines at this hour. 

1.

President Lee Jae Myung today hosted his Japanese counterpart Sanae Takaichi in his hometown of Andong.
The leaders agreed on the need to swiftly restore peace and stability to the Middle East.
They also agreed to expand South Korea-Japan cooperation on supply chains, and strengthen their partnership in the sectors of LNG and crude oil.
Lee{이} and Takaichi also reaffirmed the importance of trilateral cooperation with the U.S. amid a rapidly changing international order.
The leaders last met in Takaichi's hometown of Nara Prefecture in January.

2.

Samsung Electronics and its labor union remain locked in last-minute talks, with no final outcome announced past the expected 7 PM deadline. 

Park Soo-keun, chairman of the National Labor Relations Commission, said a mediation proposal will be made if the two sides fail to reach an agreement by 10 p.m.

The two sides have been trying to hash out a deal on performance-based bonus payments before an 18-day strike scheduled to begin Thursday.
The key dispute centers on how to fund and distribute performance bonuses. 

 
3.

The Ministry of Unification clarified on Tuesday that the phrase "peaceful two states" from this year's unification white paper is "not the government's official position."
A ministry official told reporters at the Government Complex Seoul that 
"the expression 'peaceful two states' is one of the concepts the Unification Ministry has introduced to support peaceful coexistence between the two Koreas."
The official reiterated that "this does not mean acknowledging North Korea as a legal state. The idea is rather to recognize North Korea as a political entity and pursue policy on that foundation." 

4.

A press conference was held earlier today at Suwon Sports Complex ahead of the AFC Women's Champions League semifinal between Suwon FC Women of South Korea and Naegohyang FC from North Korea.
Head coach Ri Yu-il of the North Korean team said his players are ready to perform their best.
Forward and Naegohyang captain Kim Kyong-yong added that the team atmosphere remained positive and that her teammates will give their all in light of the expectations of their people.
The semifinal match between clubs of the two Koreas kicks off at 7 PM Wednesday in Suwon. 

5.
Ninety-five different stories from fourteen different countries gathered in Seoul on Monday.
The opening ceremony of the Overseas Korean Adoptees Gathering, hosted by Overseas Koreans Agency, marked the beginning of a powerful, collective homecoming.

For organization leaders who have dedicated their lives to supporting this community, this return represents a monumental chapter.

Participants gathered at Namsangol Hanok Village to experience a tea ceremony and an etiquette classroom, taking their first steps toward practicing customs they had never known before.

 
Moving to weather forecast, 
The early summer heat will ease with rain tomorrow, bringing temperatures back to seasonal levels.
Tomorrow, highs will be around 21 degrees Celsius in Seoul and 20 degrees in Daegu.
Rain is expected nationwide early tomorrow.
In terms of rainfall, the mountainous areas of Jeju Island could see up to 120 millimeters.
The Jeolla-do and Gyeongsang-do provinces are expected to receive 10 to 60, while parts of the central region could see as much as 80 millimeters.
As for temperatures, Seoul will start the day at 19 degrees, Daejeon 17, and Busan 18 degrees.
Then by the afternoon, Seoul will warm up to 21 degrees, Chuncheon 20, and Gwangju 23 degrees.
By Thursday afternoon, most of the rain will taper off, and temperatures will start to rise again.
Now, here's a look at the weather around the world. 

The current temperatures are:
__________in Seoul
_________in Gwangju
_________in Busan
_________on Jejudo island.
You’re listening to Arirang Radio.