Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
As the conflict in the Middle East continues, President Lee Jae Myung has called for bolder measures to address potential energy supply disruptions in South Korea. 

Presiding over a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday, Lee even raised the possibility of using an emergency presidential decree, if legal or regulatory barriers slow the government's response.

It was last invoked in 1993, when the government introduced a real-name financial transaction system.

 
2.
The government has approved a supplementary budget, with the bulk of spending aimed at cushioning the economic shock from the escalating Middle East crisis — particularly surging global oil prices.
Totaling 26-point-2 trillion won — around 17 billion U.S. dollars — at the center of the plan is direct support to households grappling with higher energy costs.

More than three billion dollars has been set aside for cash handouts, with roughly 35-point-8 million people — or the bottom 70 percent of income earners — set to receive between 65 and 390 dollars each, depending on their income and where they live.

In parallel, the government is allocating more than three billion dollars to ease energy-related expenses more broadly.
This includes support for a fuel price cap system, subsidies to offset rising transportation and fuel costs, and expanded benefits for energy voucher recipients.
Additional temporary subsidies will also be provided to farmers and fishers facing higher fuel bills.
 
3.
To preempt potential supply disruptions, South Korea has launched a Strategic Petroleum Reserve Swap Program.
Starting Tuesday, the government is lending crude oil from its strategic reserve to the country’s four major oil refiners.
In return, the refiners will reimburse the state with the borrowed crude volumes at a later date.

The initiative bridges a critical transportation gap.
Refiners are securing alternative crude from countries like Brazil and Kazakhstan to bypass the Strait of Hormuz, but those shipments take up to three weeks to arrive.

The swap program provides immediate access to state reserves already in the country.Following an initial two-million-barrel contract on Tuesday, refiners plan to request a total of 20 million barrels.
The industry ministry stated that refiners have already secured at least 20 million barrels of alternative crude.
With actual arrivals by June expected to far exceed this mark, domestic supply is projected to remain completely stable through the first half of the year.

Supplies of other critical industrial materials, including helium, sulfuric acid, and ethylene, are also expected to be stable through June.
However, officials warned that a prolonged conflict involving Iran and shrinking global supplies could threaten market stability in the second half.
Regarding Russian naphtha, a domestic firm imported 27,000 tons on Monday.
 
4.
President Lee Jae Myung discussed the Middle East conflict and its economic impact during talks with a delegation of U.S. lawmakers at the Blue House on Tuesday.

According to Blue House spokesperson Kang Yu-jung, both sides agreed on the need for close communication and cooperation in responding to the crisis.

Lee also called for legislative efforts to help ensure the stable stay of Korean nationals working in the U.S., stressing this is key to the smooth implementation of Seoul's multi-billion-dollar investment pledge in the country.
The six-member delegation is part of the bipartisan U.S. Congressional Study Group on Korea.

The group has also met with former presidents Moon Jae-in and Yoon Suk Yeol during previous visits to South Korea.

5.

The National Assembly has passed around 70 bills aimed at stabilizing the economy and people's livelihoods through bipartisan agreement.

Following a plenary session on Tuesday, major bills, including foreign exchange stability bills,... which propose amendments to address the weak Korean won amid volatile geopolitical tensions,... were passed.
This legislation aims to encourage Korean investors to bring overseas funds back into the domestic stock market.
Lawmakers also approved a revision to officially designate May 1st, Labor Day, as an official public holiday.

Once the amendment is finalized through a Cabinet review, the change is to take effect immediately.
The National Assembly also passed revisions to introduce a formal victim protection system to the anti-stalking law. 

 
Moving to weather forecast,
Mild spring weather will continue, with temperatures staying above average for this time of year. Temperatures in Seoul will rise to around 20 degrees Celsius.
Meanwhile, air quality will be at bad levels in Seoul, Gyeonggi-do, and Chungcheongbuk-do provinces, and Sejong City. Fine dust will build up across much of the central and western regions in the morning, due to stagnant air and lingering pollutants. As the day goes on, pollutants will move eastward on westerly winds, raising dust levels in other areas as well.

59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Pyeongchang
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’