Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
South Korea and the U.S. are not discussing a reduction or withdrawal of U.S. forces stationed in Korea.

That's according to senior Blue House spokesperson Kang Yu-jung on Thursday, when asked about U.S. President Donald Trump's social media post indicating a possible reduction of American troops in Germany.
Kang said that the government is paying attention to a possible change in U.S. combat posture around the world.
She added that Seoul is closely coordinating with the U.S. forces for the stable stationing of its troops and the allies' robust joint defense readiness.

There are currently around 28-thousand-500 American troops in South Korea.
 
2.
Seoul has reinforced vital dialogue channels with Tehran,... through the recent visit of a special envoy to Iran.
That's according to one Foreign Ministry official in Seoul speaking with reporters Thursday.
The official revealed that Ambassador Chung Byung-ha returned to Seoul on Monday,... after two weeks of diplomatic outreach in Tehran on behalf of Foreign Minister Cho Hyun.
The visit was made in a rare high-level diplomatic push,… as tensions in the Middle East continue to disrupt global shipping routes.

Meeting with Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi last week, the envoy called for Iran's continued cooperation in ensuring the safety of around 40 South Korean nationals in the country,… as well as embassy staff.

He also urged Tehran to guarantee the free and safe passage of all vessels,… with 26 Korean ships currently in regional waters.
Chung also highlighted the long-standing ties between Seoul and Tehran,… noting that South Korean diplomatic missions and companies remained in Iran even during the country's war with Iraq in the 1980s.
The envoy also met with other senior officials in the Iranian government.
 
3.
President Lee Jae Myung has called... for greater collaboration... within the labor sector.

Speaking at a weekly meeting... with his top aides... on this Thursday... he maintained that workers garner strength... through solidarity... given their vulnerable position... in the labor market.
That being said... he warned that "excessive demands" by some organized labor groups... could face public backlash... and ultimately harm workers.

His remarks come... as tens of thousands of Samsung Electronics workers are set to go on strike... starting May 21st... for higher bonuses.
 
4.
Seoul and Canberra will work together to secure energy resource supply chains,... including diesel, liquid fuels and liquefied natural gas.

The two governments released a joint statement on energy cooperation on Thursday,... as Foreign Minister Cho Hyun met with his Australian counterpart Penny Wong in Seoul.
The joint document says the two sides are working together to strengthen energy resource supply chain resilience,... including through deepening regional cooperation,... and accelerating energy transition.

The two countries shared deep concern over the recent situation in the Middle East,... and its ripple effects on regional energy resources and other key raw materials.
 
5.
Korea's economy delivered a broadly positive set of "triple growth" numbers in March, with industrial output, consumption, and investment all rising for the first time in six months.
According to data released on Thursday by the Ministry of Data and Statistics, overall industrial production rose zero-point-three percent from the previous month, extending gains for a second consecutive month.

Equipment investment rose 12-point-6 percent quarter-on-quarter in the first quarter of 2026.
This is the largest quarterly increase since the fourth quarter of 1999, more than 26 years ago.
Retail sales grew two-point-four percent quarter-on-quarter, the strongest surge since the second quarter of 2020.
 
Semiconductor production, however, fell eight-point-one percent month-on-month.
While it might sound alarming, an official from the Ministry of Data and Statistics said this was due to a base effect.
The official explained that the semiconductor sector saw the decline in March following a 28-point-2 percent surge the previous month, noting that its performance remains strong.
The March data showed some positive numbers, but it largely reflects momentum that predates the Middle East conflict.

Moving to weather forecast,
Much like today, inland areas will have temperature swings of around 15 degrees tomorrow, so you may want to have a light jacket with you.
Rain is set to move in later today, affecting southern Chungcheong-do, the eastern parts of Jeolla-do, and the Gyeongsang-do provinces, with about five to ten millimeters expected.
Most of the rain will clear out overnight, but in the Gyeongsang-do provinces, it may stick around into tomorrow morning.

Dry conditions are still in place in some inland areas, though a few advisories could be lifted as the rain moves in.

Heading into the weekend, we’ll keep plenty of sunshine and warmer temperatures through Saturday.
But, inland areas will continue to see large day-to-night temperature swings. And then by Sunday, rain is expected to return nationwide.

59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Pyeongchang
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’