Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
Devising preemptive measures that can cover worst-case scenarios, with a sense of urgency.

That was President Lee Jae Myung at an emergency meeting of economy-related officials on Monday,... which was organized as the conflict in the Middle East continues to pose risks on the local and global economies.

President Lee once again called for strong measures against price collusion related to oil products... and mentioned the need to stabilize prices.

Tackling the economic challenges will likely be the single-most visited topic this week, with the president urging officials to turn the crisis into an opportunity. On top of that, President Lee is looking to reform the economic system in a more fundamental way.
 
2.
About 300 South Koreans departed Doha aboard a Qatar Airways flight on Monday, after emergency direct flights between Qatar and South Korea were allowed, although regular services remain suspended.

According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here, the aircraft took off from Doha at around 3:45 PM Korea standard time,... and is scheduled to arrive at Incheon International Airport after midnight, early on Tuesday.

Qatar’s airspace is partially open, with only some emergency flights to Europe currently in operation.

The Korean Embassy in Qatar had been requesting the Qatari government and airlines to resume flights to Seoul,... in order to facilitate the swift and safe return of Korean nationals staying in the Middle East.

According to the foreign ministry, Doha accepted Seoul’s request on Sunday, after which an emergency flight to South Korea was scheduled.
 
3.
Senior U.S. diplomats are visiting Seoul this week to discuss alliance-related issues.

On Monday, the foreign ministry said U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs Michael DeSombre will visit Korea from Wednesday to Sunday.

During his visit, he is expected to meet with Korea’s chief nuclear envoy, Jeong Yeon-doo {정연두},... as well as Deputy Minister Chung Eui-hye {정의혜} and Park Jong-han {박종한}, the director-general for Economic Diplomacy Coordination.

During talks with Director-General Jeong, the two are expected to discuss North Korea diplomacy.

The visit comes ahead of U.S. President Donald Trump's visit to Beijing later this month.

The two may also discuss the ongoing situation in the Middle East.
Ahead of his arrival, David Wilezol, U.S. deputy assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, is visiting Seoul from Monday through Wednesday.

 
4.
The conflict in the Middle East has effectively closed off the Strait of Hormuz, disrupting supply routes for the roughly 20 percent of global oil exports. Global oil prices surged past one-hundred U.S. dollars a barrel on Monday.

Global benchmark prices climbed sharply, with West Texas Intermediate jumping about 15 percent to 107 dollars and 54 cents per barrel as of 7 a.m., Korea standard time, the first time since July 2022 that it has traded above 100 dollars.
Brent crude also rose, briefly reaching as high as 111 dollars a barrel.

According to the Oil Price Information Network, as of 9 a.m. Monday, KST, the average price nationwide in Korea was approximately 1-thousand-897-point-7 won, or roughly 1 dollar and 27 cents, per liter. 

South Korea’s benchmark KOSPI closed sharply lower Monday, plunging about six percent to 5,251-point 87.
The index slid right after the opening bell, triggering a sell-side sidecar. Losses later deepened past eight percent, setting off a circuit breaker that halted trading for twenty minutes.
The halt came just three trading days after the last circuit breaker on Wednesday.
 
5.
In the meantime,

A National Assembly special committee has advanced a bill supporting South Korea's planned 3-hundred-50-billion-U.S.-dollar investment in the U.S.

The special committee approved the bill unanimously.
The bill paves the path for a dedicated investment corporation and a risk management committee to oversee projects in sectors such as shipbuilding and semiconductors.

The bill heads to the parliament's plenary session this coming Thursday for final passage.
 

6.
Onto sporting event,

South Korea's Kim Yun-ji topped the podium in the women's sitting para biathlon in Italy on Sunday, making her the country's first female to win a Winter Paralympic gold.

It's also Korea's first gold won overseas, with the country's only previous gold coming at the 2018 PyeongChang Games.

 
Moving to weather forecast,
Tomorrow looks will be as dusty as today. 
The east coast of Gangwon State and parts of Gyeongsang-do province will see rain through tonight, with mountainous regions of Gangwon seeing up to 5 centimeters of snowfall.

Tomorrow morning will be colder, but highs will be higher, hovering right around the seasonal norms.

Even southern regions will see subzero temperatures with frost in inland regions. Daegu and Gwangju at minus 1 degree Celsius.

59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Gwangju.
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’