Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
Devising an emergency response system in a preemptive manner,... so that the conflict in the Middle East does not pose grave threats to lives in Korea.
That's what President Lee Jae Myung has instructed his officials to do, with response measures topping Tuesday's Cabinet meeting agenda for a third straight week.
With global oil prices rising, authorities will update the fuel price cap rule and announce it later this week.

The president also vowed to strongly punish any attempts at price collusion,... adding that the prosecution has launched investigations into oil refiners.
To reduce private vehicle use on workdays, public institutions will adopt a system limiting use based on the last digit of license plate numbers.
As for private firms, Lee asked them to join the campaign to save energy.
President Lee revisited the need to swiftly organize a "war-response" extra budget.
 
2.
The United States is stepping up pressure on countries, including South Korea, to give up their developing country status at the World Trade Organization.

The U.S. Trade Representative released a reform report on Tuesday, signaling Washington's intent to crack down on what it sees as "free-riding" within the WTO system.

Citing U.S. Trade Representative Jamieson Greer, the report describes the current global order in international trade as “untenable and unsustainable."

Washington argues that reforming "special and differential treatment," or "SDT," is key to restoring the organization's credibility.
SDT allows developing countries greater flexibility, including slower tariff cuts and extended timelines for implementing trade commitments.
The report points to four countries... Brazil, Singapore, South Korea and Costa Rica.

The United States also outlined reform steps, proposing stronger incentives for countries that comply with notification requirements by properly reporting trade-related measures.
 
3.
South Korea's Cabinet today approved two bills aimed at stripping prosecutors of their investigative powers.

The bills stipulate creating two new agencies, one that will exclusively handle investigations under the interior ministry... and the other in charge of indictments under the justice ministry.
The investigation agency will look into six major crimes, including corruption and those related to the economy or drugs.

The current Prosecutors' Office will be abolished in October, - the first major change in 78 years, following decades of debate over readjusting the prosecutions' powers.

The legislation was led by the ruling Democratic Party amid objections from the main opposition People Power Party.
 
4.
South Korea expressed strong regret on Tuesday,... over Japan’s approval of high school textbooks that claim Dokdo as Japanese territory,... urging immediate corrections.

The foreign ministry summoned Hirotaka Matsuo,... deputy chief of mission at the Japanese Embassy,... to lodge a complaint,... saying the country cannot accept any such claims.

Seoul also protested Japan’s approval of textbook passages that downplay the coercive nature of wartime forced labor and sexual slavery by the Japanese military.

The ministry stressed that a correct understanding of history among future generations is essential for building future-oriented ties between the two countries, and urged Japan to take a more responsible approach to history education.

 
5.
North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has formally labeled South Korea the “most hostile state” and warned of merciless consequences if Pyongyang is provoked.

According to the Korean Central News Agency on Tuesday,... Kim made the remarks on the final day of the first session of the Supreme People’s Assembly, declaring that Seoul has now been officially designated as North Korea’s principal adversary.

He warned that South Korea would “pay the price” for any provocation and reaffirmed that North Korea’s status as a nuclear weapons state will never change, vowing continued efforts to confront what he described as hostile forces.

The comments came as Kim secured a third consecutive term as chairman of the State Affairs Commission, the country’s top policy-guidance body created in 2016.
Meanwhile, Russian President Vladimir Putin congratulated Kim on his reelection and expressed hope for deeper cooperation between Moscow and Pyongyang.
In a message released by the Kremlin on Monday, Putin praised Kim’s role in strengthening what he called a friendly and allied relationship between the two countries, adding that continued collaboration would serve their fundamental national interests.
 
Moving to weather forecast,
We’ll continue to see the warmth, but there will be large day-to-night temperature swings.

With stagnant air, fine dust is building up. Tomorrow, ultrafine dust levels will reach “bad” across the capital area, the Chungcheong-do provinces, inland Gangwon and Jeonbuk states.

As for temperatures, Seoul will start the day at 8 degrees Celsius, Daejeon at 7 degrees, Busan at 11 degrees.

Rain will begin on Jeju-do Island late tonight, then spread to the southern coastlines by early tomorrow morning.

59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Pyeongchang
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’