Welcome to Arirang News This is Park Kee hoon 
And we start with the top headlines at this hour.
1.
President Lee Jae Myung said he and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi agreed Monday to cooperate on stabilizing energy supply chains 
to better navigate uncertainties stemming from the war in the Middle East.
Outlining the outcomes of his summit with Modi in New Delhi, Lee said 
he and the Indian prime minister focused on expanding trade 
and investment, and exploring new opportunities in critical minerals, energy, artificial intelligence, finance and shipbuilding, among other sectors.
Lee said during a joint press announcement, 
South Korea and India will continue to strengthen bilateral cooperation to ensure a stable supply of energy resources and key raw materials, 
including naphtha in the midst of the conflict in the Middle East.

2.
Iran has not yet decided whether or not to attend a new round of negotiations with the United States, even as U.S. negotiators are set to arrive in Islamabad on Monday.
According to state media Tasnim, Tehran, as of Monday local time, 
has no plans to participate in what would be a second round of talks mediated by Pakistan.
Iran's Foreign Ministry spokesperson Esmaeil Bagaei reportedly said no decision had been made regarding the next round of negotiations.
This comes after the U.S. Navy attacked and seized an Iranian-flagged vessel on Sunday evening, after it ignored warnings 
and attempted to breach the U.S. naval blockade.
The spokesperson criticised the U.S. for engaging in actions that contradict its claims of pursuing diplomacy, saying Iran’s mistrust toward the entire process has only been compounded.
He added that Tehran will make the necessary decisions about the future path with careful consideration of its national interests.

3.
An oil tanker that broke through the blockade of the Strait of Hormuz is now heading to South Korea.
According to Reuters on Monday, the Malta-flagged tanker Odessa passed through the strait last week, and is currently en route to Korea.
The vessel is a Suezmax-class tanker, capable of carrying up to one million barrels of oil, and is set to unload at a Hyundai Oilbank refinery.
Hyundai Oilbank confirmed the vessel is heading to its facility, 
but declined to specify the cargo onboard.

4.
Bank of Korea governor Rhee Chang-yong wrapped up his four-year term on Monday.
Rhee took office during the COVID-19 pandemic and went through a period of political transition, serving under three presidents in four years.
As global inflation surged following the Russia-Ukraine war, 
he responded with two unprecedented "big step" rate hikes of 
half a percentage point each pushing the benchmark rate to 
3-point-5 percent.
Aggressive rate hikes helped South Korea return inflation to the two percent target range ahead of many major economies, which Rhee cited as one of the most meaningful achievements of his tenure.

5.
The race for Seoul’s mayor has taken shape as a two-way contest between the ruling Democratic Party's candidate Jeong Won-oh and the incumbent Mayor Oh Se-hoon of the main opposition People Power Party.
The matchup was finalized after Oh was confirmed as the conservative candidate on April 18th, following Jeong securing his party’s nomination earlier on April 9th.
Jeong, the former head of Seongdong-gu District, pledged to "defend democracy with citizens and build a fairer, more transparent Seoul."
Oh, who is seeking a third consecutive term, framed the election as a check on the current administration, saying efforts are needed to ensure voters express "meaningful judgment."
Both sides have been engaging in sharp rhetoric, casting the election either as a stepping stone in broader political ambitions or a referendum on the current government