Welcome to Arirang News This is Park Kee hoon 
And we start with the top headlines at this hour.
1. 
President Lee Jae Myung says the Seoul will take proactive steps to restore cross-border trust and to promote peace on the peninsula.
In a message to mark the eighth anniversary of the Panmunjom Declaration on Monday, he reaffirmed his administration's principles against acts of hostility including unification through absorption.
The declaration signed in 2018 by then-President Moon Jae-in and 
North Korea's Kim Jong-un includes pledges of denuclearization 
and a formal end to the Korean War.

2.
President Lee Jae Myung met with Google DeepMind Co-Founder and CEO Demis Hassabis on Monday to discuss the responsible use of AI.
Hosting the entrepreneur at the Blue House, President Lee threw him a question on whether AI will be used in a way that benefits humanity's welfare or in a way that harms it.
When the president asked about some of the malfunctions of 
Google Gemini, Hassabis noted the importance of setting "guardrails."
Google has agreed to open a so-called "AI Campus" in Seoul 
within the year to expand research cooperation.

3.
The total market cap of Korean stock markets for the first time surpassed 6,000 trillion won, or around 4-point-zero-8 trillion U.S. dollars.
On Monday, the KOSPI closed at 6,615 points, its highest ever close, 
pushing the combined market cap to 6,104.7 trillion won.
The KOSPI accounted for 5,421.55 trillion won, the tech-heavy KOSDAQ contributed 679.54 trillion won, and the small and medium-sized enterprise KONEX market accounted for 3.59 trillion won.

4.
This Friday, May First, is Labor Day and the Lee administration has officially designated it as a public holiday.
That being said the Culture Ministry and the Korea Tourism Organization 
are seeking to bolster tourism within national borders.
Accordingly, the so-called "half-price vacation" initiative is being expanded from the originally planned 100-thousand participants to 145-thousand.
Plans are also in the works for additional support for employees at small and medium-sized businesses and those working outside the capital area.
Separately, starting Thursday this week for one month 
the government will launch a promotional campaign titled 
"Zero Departure Burden" to encourage eco-friendly travel 
using public transport.
Discounts of up to 30 percent will be offered for KTX tickets.

5.
There were no further negotiations in Islamabad over the weekend, 
raising concerns that the conflict could last longer than expected.
This comes after Pakistan's Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Muhammad Ishaq Dar posted on X that traffic restrictions around the key negotiating site, Islamabad's Serena Hotel and the Red Zone had been lifted as of Sunday after around a week.
During a visit to Russia on Monday, Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi criticized the U.S. over the collapse of ceasefire talks in Islamabad, 
saying that despite progress in negotiations, previous talks failed 
because of what he described as Washington's approach with excessive demands.

6.
Sunday was another day of intense attacks across the Israel-Lebanon border.
Lebanon's Ministry of Health said Israeli strikes on the country on Sunday killed 14 people, including two children and two women, and injured 37.
The artillery and aerial strikes came after Israel Defense Forces issued evacuation warnings for several villages in southern Lebanon, which the IDF claims targeted Hezbollah operatives and sites used to advance attacks against its soldiers.
Hezbollah also launched a suicide drone attack Sunday, targeting Israeli troops stationed in southern Lebanon, which the Israeli military said killed a 19-year-old IDF soldier and wounded six others.