Welcome to Arirang News
This is Kim Ji Eun,
And We start with the top headlines at this hour
#1
Continuing his diplomatic push in Vietnam, President Lee Jae Myung on Thursday held a series of high-level meetings with the country's No. 2 and No. 3 officials. 
Lee first met with Prime Minister Le Minh Hung, who oversees the country's economy and administration.
Talks focused on deepening economic cooperation, with President Lee presenting South Korea as a reliable partner in supporting Vietnam's rapid growth.
As these meetings come just weeks after Vietnam's new administration took office, they are seen as efforts to set a positive tone for bilateral ties in the years ahead.

#2
Staying in Hanoi.
First lady Kim Hea Kyung was hosted by her Vietnamese counterpart Ngo Phuong Ly for cultural exchanges.
Together they visited the Vietnam Museum of Ethnology on Thursday and toured the exhibition featuring Vietnam's traditional culture and customs.
They also exchanged cultural similarities between Korea and Vietnam.
Kim was wearing a pink ao dai, Vietnam's national dress, presented by Ly as a gift.
They also watched a water puppetry show, and wished for deeper friendship between the two countries.

#3
Seoul's diplomatic envoy to Tehran, Chung Byung-ha, has met with Iran’s Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi to discuss the safety of Korean citizens and vessels in the Strait of Hormuz.
The Foreign Ministry says the meeting was abruptly arranged and held on Wednesday in Tehran.
The Korean envoy strongly requested Tehran's attention on the protection of Korean nationals in Iran.
Araghchi said Iran would take a continuous interest in that matter.
Chung also raised the need to ensure free and safe passage of all vessels in the Strait of Hormuz, as over two dozen Korean-flagged ships remain in regional waters.
The envoy further expressed hope that the resumption of negotiations between the United States and Iran would lead to the early restoration of peace and stability in the region.
Araghchi expressed appreciation for South Korea sending an envoy even during difficult times, and the Korean Embassy in Tehran continuing to operate despite the war.
Both officials agreed on the importance of bilateral ties, and the need to continue developing the relationship.

#4
South Korea and the U.S. aim to meet the required conditions for the transfer of wartime operational control to Seoul, no later than the second quarter of the U.S. fiscal year 2029.
This is according to remarks made on Wednesday, local time, by General Xavier Brunson, the U.S. Forces Korea commander, when answering a question from the U.S. House Armed Services Committee.
The U.S. government’s fiscal year 2029 runs from October 1, 2028, to September 30, 2029, meaning the allies aim to meet the conditions between January through March 2029, for Korea's fiscal year.
He also said South Korea is in a strong position for the transfer, with defense spending set to rise about 8.5% over the next three years.

#5
The government will freeze wholesale petroleum prices for another two weeks, keeping gasoline capped at 1-thousand-9-hundred-34 won per liter and diesel at 1-thousand-9-hundred-23 won.
The decision to maintain these price levels aims to manage domestic demand and protect the economy amid global market volatility.
Authorities dismissed the possibility of scrapping the price controls in the near term due to ongoing instability in the Middle East.

Moving to the weather forecast,
We’re looking at a sunny day tomorrow with fine dust levels ranging from “good” to “moderate.”
So it'll be a great day to get out and enjoy some fresh air.
Temperatures are gradually warming up, but inland areas will see big day-to-night temperature swings of around 20 degrees.
Meanwhile, alerts have been expanding, with dry weather advisories now in place across parts of the central regions, including Seoul.

The current temperature are
20 degrees in Seoul,
19 degrees in Gwangju,
14 degrees in Busan,
And 13 degrees on Jejudo Island.
You’re listening to, Arirang Radio