Welcome to Arirang News.
This is Key Kim.
We start with the top headlines at this hour.

1. 
President Lee Jae Myung has stressed the need to broaden South Korea's diplomatic outreach to the Global South, following his recent trip to India and Vietnam.

Chairing his first Cabinet meeting since the trip on Tuesday, President Lee said the war in the Middle East is reshaping the global economic and security landscape, and called for a more strategic and flexible diplomatic approach.
Tuesday's meeting reviewed the outcomes of Lee's state visits, with a particular focus on strengthening economic ties with India.

Lee's summit with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi resulted in an agreement to establish a ministerial-level Korea-India Industrial Cooperation Committee, along with an MOU to support cooperation between the two countries' small and medium-sized enterprises.

At the same time, President Lee underscored the importance of maintaining stable ties with traditional partners.

He urged resolving pending issues based on mutual respect and shared principles, while building forward-looking relationships.

2.
President Lee Jae Myung has vowed to overcome a national crisis based on social integration and the spirit of Admiral Yi Sun-sin.

He attended the 481st anniversary of the birth of the 16th-century naval commander Yi Sun-sin on Tuesday in the city of Asan.
In his speech, Lee noted uncertainties stemming from the rapidly changing international order and rising energy costs due to the Middle East war.

He said society needs to overcome challenges together, just as the admiral saved the country from Japanese invasion more than 400 years ago.

The president promised to achieve co-prosperity and a fair society, and vowed to make the country one of the global leaders in AI. 
 
3.
Korea has overtaken the UK to rank as the world's eighth-largest stock market, driven by a strong rally in AI-related tech heavyweights.

Bloomberg reported Tuesday that the total market capitalization of Korean-listed firms has jumped more than 45 percent this year to around 4-point-04 trillion U.S. dollars.
This far outpaces the UK, which has seen only a roughly 3 percent rise to 3-point-99 trillion.
Until the end of 2024, the UK market was about twice as large as Korea's,... but sharp gains this year have quickly reversed that.

Bloomberg attributed the surge to strong gains in AI-driven chip stocks.

Meanwhile, the KOSPI continued its upward rally Tuesday,... finishing at 6,641.02, up 0.39 percent from the previous close.
At one point in the session, the index rose to 6,712-point-73, topping the previous intraday high in the 6,600 range set just a day earlier and moving above the 6,700 mark for the first time.
 
4.
The Bank of Korea's net profit hit an all-time high... in the first quarter of this year.

The cumulative net profit stood over 4-point-2 trillion won... or some 2-point-9 billion U.S. dollars, up three times the amount from the first quarter of last year.

The gains were garnered... amid a persistently high exchange rate... that averaged over 1-thousand-4-hundred 60 won... to the dollar... throughout the quarter... boosting returns... on the bank's foreign currency securities... and overseas asset management.
 

5.
U.S. President Donald Trump may be weighing a new Iranian proposal to reopen the Strait of Hormuz,... a move that could ease global energy tensions.
The White House says Trump discussed the proposal with his national security team on Monday local time.

This comes after Iran reportedly shared a two-stage peace plan with Washington through Pakistan,... offering to reopen the vital shipping route,... if Washington lifts its naval blockade and the war comes to an end.
Iran also proposed delaying negotiations over its nuclear program to a later stage.
White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt told reporters Monday afternoon that “the proposal was being discussed."

The Trump administration has repeatedly said its key objective is to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.

Meanwhile, 
After a second round of ceasefire talks with the United States fell through, Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi headed to Russia.
Speaking shortly after his arrival, Araghchi sharply criticized Washington, saying its approach had derailed negotiations.

Araghchi argued that the reason President Trump had proposed the talks was because the U.S. had failed to achieve any of its war objectives against Iran, and said Tehran is still reviewing whether to restart the talks.
 
Moving to weather forecast,
Skies will clear up again from tomorrow, with daytime highs hovering around 20 degrees.

But inland areas will see a big day-to-night temperature swing of around 15 degrees, so make sure to dress accordingly.
Tomorrow, Seoul will start the day at 8 degrees Celsius, Chuncheon at 6 degrees, Busan at 12 degrees.

Afternoon temperatures will stay slightly above average, yet what big day-to-night temperature swings continue.

59:30’
The current temperatures are:
_______ degrees in Seoul
_______ degrees in Pyeongchang
_______ degrees in Busan
And _______ degrees on Jejudo Island

59:39’ You’re listening to Arirang Radio 59:42’